The Aegis Coloss ( 鎧の巨人 Yoroi no Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi that possessed armored plates of skin across its body.

The defining feature of the Aegis Coloss was the all-encompassing layer of plated, armor-like segments of hardened skin protecting the Coloss body. This armor was capable of shielding the Coloss from significant amounts of damage, shielding direct hit from a cannon , breaking ultrahard steel blades of ODM gear when struck and withstanding the Cataclysm Coloss's explosive transformation. However, the armor had some limitations and was not capable of protecting the user from high-power weaponry such as the Mid-East Allied Forces ' anti-Coloss artillery . The armor could be used for physical protection as well as offensively, dealing great damage upon impact on anything the Coloss charges.

While certainly formidable, the primary disadvantage of the Aegis Coloss's skin was the decreased speed of the Coloss form. Whether due to increased weight or restrained movement, the Aegis Coloss was only capable of maintaining moderate running speeds when completely armored. This could be alleviated if the user chose to shed segments of the armor to increase movement capability, such as the armor behind the knees, enabling the Coloss to move with incredible speed.

A lesser-known disadvantage was that if the holder of the Origin Core wished to, they were able to cause the hardened skin of the Aegis Coloss to crumble away to nothing; this left the Coloss prone and extremely vulnerable to damage. However, this only seemed to apply to the current body created by transforming, as transforming into the Aegis Coloss later revealed it to be restored of its namesake armor.

Similar to the Mimic Coloss , the Aegis Coloss was capable of utilizing crystal-like hardening around its body to at least some extent. The Aegis Coloss could also use this ability to create claws on its hands and feet which could be used to scale the Wall of Shiganshina District with ease.

The Aegis Coloss, like all the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . In the 1,700 years following her death, the Aegis Coloss was held in the possession of one or several of the warring Eldian houses subservient to the Origin Core. After these seventeen centuries when Karl Fritz , the 145th King of the Fritz family , abandoned the conflicts of Eldia and relocated to Isle of Vestara , the Aegis Coloss was taken by the nation of Dominion of Marn during the Great Coloss War .

In the year 843 , Rynor Feld was chosen to inherit the power of the Aegis Coloss. He would later make use of his Coloss form in a war between Dominion of Marn and an enemy nation, using his Aegis Coloss to take the brunt of enemy artillery fire.

In the year 845, the nation of Dominion of Marn sent out Rynor, Bertholdt Hoover , Anya Levar , and Marcel Galliard across the sea to Isle of Vestara as the start of the Isle of Vestara Operation .

After arriving on the island and venturing northwards to the Barrier Rings , Rynor entered Shiganshina District , the southernmost district of the Barrier Rings, after Bertholdt destroyed the south gate with his Cataclysm Coloss . As panicked Vestari fled the city while Colossi swarmed in, Rynor's Aegis Coloss advanced to the north gate and charged it, breaking through and breaching the northern part of Outer Ring . Rynor joined his fellow surviving Warriors in entering the walled territory during the chaos, and he would not use the Aegis Coloss again for another five years.

Over a month later, Rynor reaches a breaking point and chooses to reveal his nature as the Aegis Coloss as well as Bertholdt's nature as the Cataclysm Coloss to Arin, promising to leave the people of the Barrier Rings alone if he returns with them to their hometown . When Arin refuses and Mira attacks the two Warriors, Rynor transforms into the Aegis Coloss and grabs Arin. However, Arin in turn transforms into the Vanguard Coloss and battles with Rynor.

Despite improvements to Arin's control over the Vanguard Coloss, Rynor's Aegis Coloss overpowers him initially until Arin makes use of a technique that was taught to him by Anya Levar some time ago, taking one of Rynor's arms before retreating temporarily. Requiring more speed, Rynor begins shedding the armor behind his knees and continues his attack on Arin, but he is nonetheless overpowered by the Vanguard Coloss again. With defeat imminent, Rynor calls for Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss, which falls on the two Colossi in an explosive burst of steam. Rynor is able to withstand the intense winds and bites Arin out of his Vanguard Coloss. Once Bertholdt exits his Coloss with a captive Imera , the two Warriors escape to the nearby Forest of Giant Tress

After some conversation in the forest, the Warriors start their retreat upon seeing signal flares from the Recon Legion . Rynor uses his Aegis Coloss to carry Bertholdt and their captives away, and the Recon Legion pursues them. Their retreat goes unhindered until Commander Orwin Hale charges the Aegis Coloss head-on with a horde of Pure Colossi following after him. Rynor attempts to fight back against the Colossi, and the Warriors lose Arin to the Recon Legion in the moment of vulnerability. Shortly afterward, Arin succeeds in temporarily using the Origin Core, causing the Colossi to swarm after the Warriors. Rynor flees with Bertholdt and Imera, and they rest in the ruins of Shiganshina District .

Some time later, Rynor's Aegis Coloss battles Zair Kael 's Primal Coloss due to having disagreements over their next course of action. The Aegis Coloss is soundly defeated in the brawl, and Zair states that they will wait in Shiganshina for the arrival of the Recon Legion rather than attempting to rescue Anya Levar .

Three months after the Struggle for Trost , the Recon Legion arrive in Shiganshina and seal the southern gate using a new hardening ability acquired by Arin's Vanguard Coloss. Suspecting that the Warriors may be nearby, Alren Vos proposes a search of the Wall and Rynor is found hiding within. As he is attacked by Captain Kael , Rynor uses one of his last-resort Coloss powers to transfer his brain functions to the entirety of his body long enough for him to transform into the Aegis Coloss. As the battle of Shiganshina District begins, Rynor hardens his fingers to climb Outer Ring in order to attack the Recon Legion horses . However, Arin's Vanguard Coloss appears in the city and Rynor is left with a choice of attack. Rynor chooses to confront Arin, and the Vanguard Coloss battles with the Aegis Coloss for a second time.

Arin's new ability to harden the Vanguard Coloss's skin successfully deals heavy damage to Rynor's Aegis Coloss, but the greatest damage done is dealt from the Thunder Spears , a new explosive weapon developed by the Recon Legion in recent months. The explosives tear through the armor of Rynor's nape and destroy his brain, though his consciousness transfer once again keeps him alive. Rynor than roars for help as planned and shortly thereafter Bertholdt arrives at Rynor's side, telling him to lie down on his back for the time being.

While Bertholdt confronts the Recon Legion, Rynor follows Bertholdt's advice and flips his Aegis Coloss onto its back, protecting Rynor from further harm and giving him enough time to regenerate his head. A short while later, Rynor fully heals his brain and he returns to the fight, but with no memory of any events that had occurred since earlier that morning. The Recon Legion attacks Rynor with the Thunder Spears again, incapacitating him and successfully ejecting Rynor from the nape of his Aegis Coloss. Rynor is interrogated afterward, but before he can be killed, he is rescued by Zair and Pixa 's Burden Coloss , who brings him atop Outer Ring. The Warriors would return to Dominion of Marn afterward, abandoning Anya and Bertholdt.

Four years later, Rynor is present at the battle of Fort Slava at the climax of the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War , waiting on standby in an airship due to the presence of anti-Coloss artillery on the ground below. Once the ground infantry succeed in destroying the armored train carrying the artillery around the fortress, Rynor eventually joins the combat as the Aegis Coloss after a Coloss airstrike sent down with the power of Zair's Primal Coloss. Alongside Porko Galen 's Razor Coloss , Rynor's Aegis Coloss decimates the anti-Coloss artillery set up on the walls of the fortress. When the coast is clear, Rynor signals for the Zair to join the battle, where his Primal Coloss throws spare artillery at the Mid-East Allied Forces ' navy stationed in the bay nearby. However, when the ships begin to open fire on Zair's Primal Coloss, Rynor uses his Aegis Coloss as a shield for Zair, receiving devastating damage in the process. Despite having lost his entire body below the head in the explosion, Rynor later recovered.

One month later during Willy Tybur 's speech in Liberio , Falo Gryss takes Rynor to a basement behind the stage, where he meets Arin Kael for the first time in four years. After Arin sets aside their differences and clarifies that Rynor is not his true enemy, he takes Rynor's hand and begins to transform. In a state of panic, Rynor bites his hand to transform and protect Falo. He creates two armored hands that successfully shield the two of them from the energy blast and resulting wreckage. Rynor is unconscious following the attack and his injuries do not regenerate. Falo suspects this is due to Rynor having lost the will to live.

As the Recon Legion and Warriors battle in Liberio, Falo and Gara Feld cry out for Rynor to save Galliard's Razor Coloss, which is about to be eaten by Arin's Vanguard Coloss . Rynor reluctantly wakes up and transforms into an incomplete Aegis Coloss, which is missing much of its namesake armor. Rynor is able to free Galliard from Arin's grip, but is unable to stand again after Arin punches him across the plaza.

The Aegis Coloss returns to Shiganshina as part of Dominion of Marn's retaliatory strike against Isle of Vestara. Having transformed in midair to fight Arin's Coloss, the two Colossi are quick to clash once again. The Aegis Coloss is aggressive in its attack, though is somewhat overpowered by Arin's hardened punches. Soon, the Razor Coloss comes to assist Rynor, and helped from afar by the Burden Coloss's projectiles, the tide of battle is turned. The three Warriors force Arin to overexert himself by using the Forge Coloss 's construction powers to keep the Jaw and Armored Colossi at bay. Eventually, the Aegis Coloss uses a hardened pike it had been impaled on to skewer the Vanguard Coloss, before attempting to devour Arin. However, Rynor is stopped as Arin manages to get a hold of his Coloss's head and hold him off. As the two begin a struggle, the Aegis Coloss is knocked off of his adversary by a projectile thrown by the Primal Coloss.

The Aegis Coloss is caught in a daze but eventually recovers and targets the Vanguard Coloss once more. However, it is caught in a barrage of projectiles thrown by the Primal Coloss, tearing it apart. After recovering, the Aegis Coloss resumes fighting Arin and attempts to rouse Galliard within the mangled Razor Coloss. Soon after, Zair lets out a scream that transforms all the affected Vestari into Pure Colossi; immediately, the Aegis Coloss is set upon by the newly transformed Falo Gryss . 4

Caught by surprise, the Aegis Coloss struggles to control both the Vanguard Coloss and Falo. After the Primal Coloss is shot by General Magath a second time, Rynor believes that Zair is finally dead and as such, loosens the armor around the nape of the Aegis Coloss. However, the transformed Falo ceases in biting the nape and instead targets a nearby Galliard, who is unable to sufficiently heal his wounds. The Aegis Coloss soon finds itself trapped in the hardened shell of the Vanguard Coloss; breaking free, it tries to crush Arin but its hand gets struck and blown apart by a Thunder Spear. Following the start of the World Fracture , the Aegis Coloss reaches Gara and shields her from the falling debris. The Coloss's armor also crumbles away however, forcing Rynor to abandon his Coloss form.

After Rynor regains consciousness, he joins the combined group of the Recon Legion and Warriors who go down to the harbor to attack the Jaegerists and take the flying boat . After their initial plan fails, Rynor and Anya Levar transform into their Coloss forms and engage the incoming enemies.

Both Colossi saw initial success as they repelled the Jaegerists attacks from the Thunder Spears and gunshots from the anti-Personnel omni-directional mobility gear , however, when the Azumabito engineers enter the battlefield trying to make it to the boat, Rynor is forced to use his Coloss's body to protect them leading to his nape being exposed after various Thunder Spears are fired. Later, when the Mimic Coloss is in trouble, the Aegis Coloss uses his face to block them and takes the impact causing his facial armor to be destroyed followed by the rest of his face and his arms being destroyed. Just before he is finished off, Conny Springer kills the incoming Jaegerists which then allows Pixa's Burden Coloss and Falo's Razor Coloss to dismember the enemies.

After arriving to Fort Salta , Rynor jumps out of the flying boat and transforms mid-air into the Aegis Coloss to engage the Primal Coloss that is throwing projectiles towards the flying boat. The Aegis Coloss successfully puts a stop to the Primal Coloss and engages it through hand to hand combat. The Coloss forms of previous inheritors begin to spawn from the back of the Founder Coloss and the Aegis Coloss eventually gets overwhelmed; Rynor notices with surprise when several Colossi begin fighting the others, including both Galliard brothers and Imera's Jaw Colossi. When Jaren is able to detonate the explosives located at the neck of the Origin Core , the Aegis Coloss lunges towards the creature emerging from the neck and tackles it to the ground, trying to prevent it from reconnecting with the severed head.

Having withstood the Cataclysm Coloss's explosion that destroyed the remains of the Origin Core, Rynor heads towards the creature which also survived the blast. The anomaly then emits a gas, transforming all nearby Vestari into Pure Colossi. Rynor tries to fight them off but is overwhelmed shortly before the power of Colossi vanishes, and the Aegis Coloss does so as well.