Alren Vos is a graduate of the 104th Cadet Corps and a childhood friend of Arin Kael and Mira Acken.

Alren Vos ( アルミン・アルレルト Arumin Arureruto ) is the 15th and current commander ( 団長 Danchō ) of the Recon Legion . He is also a childhood friend of Arin Kael and Mira Acken , and is one of the two deuteragonists of the series . Although he appears to be the physically weakest of the 104th Cadet Corps , his high intelligence and strategic genius makes him an invaluable asset, though he does not consider himself to be one and is known to have low self-esteem. After the battle of Shiganshina District , he took the power of the Colossi from Bertholdt Hoover and became the Cataclysm Coloss .

Alren is rather short for his age with a generally small frame, although years of military training have given him a somewhat muscular build. He has a rounded feminine face with blond hair that is cut in the style of a bob. He also has large, expressive blue eyes, brown eyebrows, and a slightly upturned nose that is often slightly red.

During his childhood, Alren wore a long-sleeved single-buttoned jacket with a collared shirt, long dress-pants, and dress shoes. As a member of the 104th Cadet Corps , Alren wears the standard 104th Cadet Corps uniform with a white button-up shirt underneath.

Alren is part of the Recon Legion and dresses in their standard uniform. Underneath his short brown jacket, he wears a white collared button-up shirt, similar to the one he wore as an adolescent. Like his fellow soldiers, Alren has supplemented his attire with a large green cape when participating in expeditions outside the Barrier Rings . He also has long brown boots that reach almost to his knees, as do the other soldiers.

In the year 854, he is noticeably a bit taller and has his hair cut shorter. As a soldier in the Recon Legion, Alren is seen wearing their revamped black uniform for the night raid on Dominion of Marn and a standard cloak for hiding purposes before he transformed. Throughout the episodes, he wears a green military uniform and in the battle against Arin, and like both Mira and Jaren, he wears a white long sleeved button-up shirt with a gray shoulder holster and black Survey Corp pants and boots.

In the year 857, his short blond hair sports fringes in each side.

In his Cataclysm Coloss form, Alren was entirely skinless and was extremely tall, roughly similar to Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss. His Coloss had elongated, stocky arms reaching its knees and very muscular legs with short thick feet. His Coloss's feet were shaped so that it could stand without falling over due to its proportions and height. Alren's Coloss's upper body was also fairly skinny, with an exposed rib cage on the front and sides. Its face was missing a nose and almost all of its skin, which was replaced by bare bone. The eyes of Alren's Coloss form were sunken in and somber, with muscle surrounding them. Alren's teeth were shown due to the lack of skin on his cheeks. However, unlike the previous Cataclysm Coloss, Alren's Coloss had lips which were surrounded by some muscle. What made Alren's Coloss particularly unique was the exposed windpipe that could be seen at its neck, with only two tendons in front of it. It also lacked visible outer ears.

Before inheriting the power of the Cataclysm Coloss from Bertholdt Hoover , Alren's Feral Coloss form shared a number of traits with his human form. It had blond shoulder-length hair, a relatively small body with a lipless mouth and gray eyes as well as a skeletal nose. In addition, the ribs of the Coloss were visible through the skin and its arms were also very skinny. While its exact height was unknown, it was shown to be big enough to peer over a three-story house rooftop.

Even when he was young, the naturally curious Alren had a deep fascination with the world beyond the Barrier Rings . As a child, he found and studied an illegal book about the outside world that was owned by his grandfather . He told Arin Kael , his best friend, about the book and the information that was inside it. Alren was branded a heretic by the other children, for his unusual interest in the outside world, and was frequently picked on. Too timid to defend himself, Alren would often need to rely on his friends (Arin and Mira ) to protect him from local bullies. This, coupled with his frail physique, was a source of much shame for Alren, leading him to have poor self-esteem and believe himself to be a burden upon others. Because of this, Alren has always been very eager to prove his worth. As a child, he hoped that one day he would be able to consider himself a true equal to his friends.

Alren continued to have low self-esteem during his training years and for a short while after graduation. During this time Alren considered himself to be useless and a burden due to his lack of physical strength and physical skill. However, soon after graduation, he came to learn that his mind is an equally valuable asset to the military and that he is not useless or a burden as he can use his brain to help people. Consequently, Alren gradually gains confidence in himself and his abilities. Nonetheless, he can still be hard on himself at times. The fact that he is so willing to sacrifice himself to achieve a goal shows that he still does not value his own life as much as he should.

Alren is exceptionally loyal, brave and selfless. He constantly worries for the safety of his friends. Alren is always prepared to throw himself into dangerous situations to save them, even offering to sacrifice himself for Mira. When he, Jaren Kirel , and Rynor Feld had to decide who would be left behind without a horse, Alren immediately offered himself without hesitation. When Jaren was injured in battle, Alren rushed to his aid, placing himself in danger as well. Although he and Arin were determined to live their dream of seeing the outside world, Alren was content to give up his life in order to defeat the Cataclysm Coloss and to have his dream fulfilled through Arin. Alren is also very level-headed, keeping Arin and Mira under control when their emotions get the better of them. He has talked down a fight Arin started with a soldier and restrained Mira from acting rashly during Arin's military trial.

Alren is a very analytical person. He likes to think deeply about situations and solve problems using his mind. These personality traits, in conjunction with his intelligence, good judgment, level-headedness, ability to plan ahead, and ability to come up with creative ideas and think outside the box, make him a great tactician. He is not an extrovert or loud person. When he was suddenly thrown into a leadership role that involved being in the spotlight, speaking in front of people and ordering people around constantly, he got quite anxious and momentarily froze up.

Alren has shown great investment in humanity's future and is always striving for and thinking about how he can change things for the betterment of mankind.

Alren's hard and cruel life has caused him to have certain beliefs about how the world works. Alren believes that (in the cruel world in which they live) in order to surpass monsters, accomplish goals or make a difference, you must be willing to sacrifice anything, even your humanity. Alren admires strong leaders such as Orwin Hale , Ian Dietrich , and Dot Pyxis for their ability to sacrifice themselves and their humanity in order to achieve their goals. He believes that tactical related decisions should be based on logic (what actions will produce the logically best outcome?), rather than emotions.

Even though Alren makes calculated decisions, he is also a very emotionally sensitive and empathetic person. Due to Alren's kind heart, he faces conflict in his mind with his belief that he has to force himself to throw away his humanity. For example, Alren killed a person to save Jaren as it was the logical thing to do; however, he became very emotionally upset afterward. This, in conjunction with the fact that he is hard on himself whenever he does something wrong, means that he has yet to completely throw away his humanity. Alren's most consistent traits remain his kind heart and keen intuition, making him often concerned with the group's morality.

Despite this, Alren strongly believes that morality is relative and that there are no universal laws of good and evil. Therefore, he has a distaste for the terms 'good person' and 'bad person', since no one could be either good or bad to everyone. This makes him willing to concoct underhanded, morally questionable plans that shock some of his comrades. Notably, both Mira and Arin, his best friends, show no hint of surprise at this ability of his, with the latter even commenting that he had always known Alren was capable of it.

Alren originally lived in the Shiganshina District of Outer Ring .

One day, after the latest in a series of beatings by bullies, Alren sat against a building, crying. Another boy, Arin Kael , appeared around the corner with a shady look on his face. Arin asked Alren why he never fought back, and claimed that that was why they treated him like that; he then asked him if he wanted to be on the losing side forever. Alren then claimed that he was not losing by not running away. Arin then asked for his name, and the two began a friendship.

Alren and his friend Arin were united together as outcasts from the other children in town. One day, Alren discovered a book belonging to his grandfather , describing the outside world. Inspired by what he read, Alren showed the book to Arin. Alren would often spend his time enthusing Arin about the outside world, for which Alren held a passionate curiosity. Reading from his grandfather's book about salty oceans, deserts, and other surreal places, Alren expressed a desire to one day venture out and see these magnificent sights for himself. However, Alren's interest in the outside world was met with frequent harassment by local bullies, who regarded him as a heretic. After Alren's parents were executed in an attempt to escape the Barrier Rings , Alren was left to live with his grandfather.

In the year 845, Alren would once again find himself cornered by bullies who mock him for his deep curiosity for the outside world. Refusing to fight back, Alren would need to be rescued by the timely appearance of Arin and Mira . Later, he and his two friends settle by the riverbank, where Arin broods over his desire to join the Recon Legion. Just as Alren muses how the Barrier Rings cannot protect humanity forever, the Cataclysm Coloss appears and subsequently breaches Outer Ring as Alren and the others watch in horror. As Colossi flood the Shiganshina District , Arin, and Mira head back home to find their doomed mother as Alren tries to stop them, but finds himself petrified by fear. Unbeknownst to Arin and Mira, Alren was the one to locate and inform Hannes to save the two as they were going too close towards the Colossi' direction.

Alren and his grandfather both managed to board a boat leaving Shiganshina. While sitting with his grandfather, Alren noticed Arin and Mira nearby and attempted to go to them. He was stopped, however, by his grandfather, who correctly deduced that Arin and Mira had just been through a traumatizing ordeal and would not want to talk. Alren was perplexed by this but was soon distracted by the sight of an Aegis Coloss smashing the inner gate of Outer Ring.

After escaping Shiganshina, Alren's grandfather was drafted to help try to reclaim the lands lost after the fall of Outer Ring. However, he, like most who participated, was killed during the mission, and Alren was left as an orphan. Despite being told that his grandfather was participating in a Recovery Operation, Alren knew that his grandfather and the other civilians had been sent on a suicide mission so that there would be fewer mouths for the government to feed. With no family left, Alren moved onto a settlement with Arin until the two of them turned twelve, and were able to join the Military .

No longer content with sitting by in the face of the Coloss threat, Alren decides to enlist in military training along with Mira and Arin. He was able to pass the basic aptitude test after some effort and tried to help Arin with it when he struggled to stay upright.

During the night after their graduation and before the cadets had decided on their chosen section of the military, (Internal Directorate Regiment, Citadel Guard, or Recon Legion) Alren sits with Arin and Mira to eat, and watches as Arin responds to a taunting Jaren , by finally deciding to set the record straight and gives a moving speech to the whole of the 104th Cadet Corps on how he wants to kill the Colossi to gain freedom and pursue his dream to see the outside world beyond the entrapment of the Barrier Rings.

After the dinner, Alren finds Arin and Mira sitting outside of the building and joins them, saying that the party is over and that they should head back to the dorms. Before they do, Arin asks Alren which section of the military he will be joining. Alren sits down and reveals that he will join the Recon Legion along with Arin and Mira. Arin questions his choice incredulously, knowing of Alren's physical weaknesses. Alren affirms his worries by acknowledging that he is physically weak. Arin responds supportively but advises Alren not to join Arin's own crazy course of action while neglecting his own strong points. Alren responds, bitterly determined, saying that he would rather die than become a burden.

Before Arin or Mira can answer, they are interrupted by seeing Hannes , who they now salute as the Captain of the Citadel Guard . Hannes points out that it has been 5 years since he has seen them.

Although high in intellect, Alren was considered weak in physical strength and graduated below the top ten.

In the year 848, two years before graduation, Alren is placed in one of two groups of cadets on a wilderness hunt to sustain themselves in times of peace. Working as his group's data collector, Alren tries to keep a record of everything that happens on the mission, but Marco Bodt makes a habit of dictating what Alren, should and should not write, in an attempt to create a report that Commandant Sadies will find favorable.

During the night, the group is ambushed by thieves as they were sleeping. Held at gunpoint, they are unable to do anything as the thieves carry off their ODM gear and kidnap Christa Lenz . Marco suggests abandoning the mission and getting help, but Arin convinces the group to help him chase down the thieves before they can get away. Sera suggests using a higher vantage point to look for the kidnappers, and Alren is able to successfully deduce where the thieves will be traveling.

The group devises a plan to confront the kidnappers. As the rest of his group takes back their stolen gear, Alren uses a signal flare to alert the other group to where they are.

After Christa is rescued and the thieves are detained, Alren delivers his report of the mission to Sadies. During their meeting, Alren asks Sadies if they were right to engage the thieves. Upon hearing Sadies' answer, Alren is left wondering if their meeting with the thieves had actually been a coincidence.

In 849, Alren is put on a team with Jaren during an omni-directional mobility gear drill in Trost District .

When Commander Pyxis declares a cooking contest between Jaren and Sera to help them settle a fight peacefully, Alren and Anya Levar are enlisted by Jaren to help him hunt a colossal boar living outside of Trost, so that they can cook it. However, the team quickly becomes lost, and ultimately lose the boar to Sera and her helpers.

Unwilling to give up on cooking meat for the competition, Jaren suggests stealing meat from their superiors' storeroom. Hysterical at the thought of stealing, Alren attempts to flee, and injures his leg in the process. Unable to help Jaren in his injured state, Alren is forced to bow out of the competition.

Alren is shaken by the news of the Coloss attack on Trost . He trembles in fear, realizing how sorely unprepared they are to respond, but Arin manages to shake him out of it. Later, Alren joins Arin's squad in the middle guard of Trost and exchanges confident words with Arin about killing Colossi, and soon after departs with Mina Carolina , Thomas Wagner , Milieus Zeremski , and Nack Tierce to their assigned location. Along the way, Thomas is caught by surprise and eaten by an abnormal Coloss. Enraged and vengeful, Arin charges ahead of the others to engage the Coloss, and Alren and the others follow suit. However, the group is ambushed and picked apart by the surrounding Colossi, leaving only Alren alive and Arin missing his left leg. Shocked and horrified, Alren is left immobile as a nearby Coloss plucks him up and attempts to swallow him. Arin, just barely conscious enough to remember how Alren inspired him to see the outside world, leaps to Alren's aid; just barely saving him from being swallowed. Arin hurls Alren out of the Coloss's mouth but is eaten in his place as Alren screams in anguish.

Stuck in a state of shock for some time, Alren is shaken out of it by Conny who questions where the rest of his squad is. Alren suffers a mental breakdown, despising himself for his cowardice that resulted in Arin's death. He leaves to inform the rear guard of what happened, along the way lamenting how the world is and always has been hell. On the way, he encounters Hanna trying to resuscitate Franz . Alren beckons Hanna to stop, seeing all too well that Franz is bisected and already dead.

Alren is later confronted by Mira above the rooftops with the other stranded cadets. She questions him about Arin's location, but as soon as Alren looks at her with tearful eyes she understands. Alren blurts out the names of all the fallen soldiers in Arin's squad, ending with Arin himself. Despite his clear regret, Mira calmly comforts Alren and explains that they must not get emotional at a time like this. Alren follows as Mira guides the leaderless cadets to safety, but realizes how she is only masking her distress. When Mira carelessly uses up all of her gas, Alren comes to her aid. Soon after, Alren, along with Mira and Conny, witness the appearance of the mysterious Coloss who only kills other Colossi.

With Mira's gas is exhausted, Alren provides her with all the remaining fuel and blades he has, seemingly ready to remain behind. Alren requests to keep one blade, implying to commit suicide with it, but Mira and Conny refuse to leave him behind. With Trost's military headquarters overrun with Colossi, and the soldiers running low on fuel, Alren devises a plan to lure the Rogue Coloss towards the HQ to wipe out the surrounding Colossi. Once inside the HQ, Alren constructs a plan to eliminate the Colossi infesting the supply depot inside. Alren and several other cadets act as bait, attracting the Colossi in the headquarters together. Once they have lured all of the Colossi into one place they use rifles to blind them, allowing the rest of the cadets lying in wait to slash their napes without omni-directional mobility gear . After refueling, Alren is one of the cadets who stay behind to watch the abnormal Coloss as it continues to fight. To his shock, the Coloss collapses from exhaustion and Arin emerges from its nape.

After being recovered, Arin is detained by a group of soldiers with the intention of executing him and Alren and Mira come to his defense. When the soldiers try firing cannons at them, Arin decides to escape over the Barrier Rings to keep his friends safe unless Alren is able to talk down the soldiers and convince them of his value to humanity. Alren tries convincing the soldiers of Arin's strategic and tactical importance in turning the tide of the battle in Trost. As a soldier, he passionately declares to be ready to die for this cause and makes a grand salute. Pyxis noticing his determination and passion, prevents their execution.

Pyxis brings the trio to the top of Middle Ring, where he has Alren help devise a plan to retake Trost with Arin's powers. Alren suggests using a boulder in the middle of the district to seal the hole while other soldiers could lure the Colossi towards the Barrier Rings. They proceed with the plan. Later, when Arin loses control of his Coloss form and knocks himself out, Alren rushes to Arin and lands on his back. Remembering the spot where Arin had risen earlier, Alren stabs into him a little askew so that it would not be fatal, but would wake him up. He reminds Arin of his personal vendetta against the Colossi, but Arin only becomes responsive once he reminds him of the world beyond the Barrier Rings and asks him to think of the reason he wanted to go out there to begin with. Arin, successfully motivated by Alren's words, carries the boulder and plugs the breach and all the remainder of the fighting is from then on supported by the newly returned Recon Legion.

Alren is then present as a witness to the hearing that decides Arin's fate; it is ultimately decided for him to be placed in the custody of the Recon Legion's Captain Kael . He and Mira are then separated from Arin until they are able to join the Recon Legion.

Before the cadets are able to decide their chosen military paths, the news spreads that two captured Colossi, Sawney and Beane , were slain, and Alren along with other cadets from the 104th Cadet Corps are called in for inspection. Alren, Anya , and Conny discuss which branch of the military they would join. To the surprise of Conny, Alren declares he intends to join the Recon Legion. Anya compliments Alren on his courage, but states she still wants to join the Internal Directorate Regiment and survive. To Anya's surprise, Alren tells her she is also a good person because he can tell she does not want them to join the Recon Legion either. She disagrees saying that she is not a good person, because she just wants to assure her own survival by joining the Internal Directorate Regiment.

After joining the Recon Legion with Arin, Mira and the rest of the 104th's top 10 (excluding Anya Levar), Alren participates in the Recon Legion's 57th expedition, venturing beyond Middle Ring. Not long into the expedition, Alren's squad encounters the Mimic Coloss , which is seemingly highly intelligent and knowledgeable about the Military formation. The Mimic Coloss kills Alren's entire squad, but spares Alren's life after carefully removing his hood and observing his face. As the Mimic Coloss moves on, Rynor and Jaren meet up with Alren and the three pursue the mysterious Coloss. Alren suggests the Mimic Coloss, like Arin, is an intelligent Coloss and is likely hunting for Arin. The three attempt to engage the Mimic Coloss, and are nearly killed, but manage to stall her, though she immediately beelines for Arin's direction after warding Alren's group off.

Though they survived the encounter, Alren, Jaren and Rynor are left stranded with only one horse, which is only strong enough to carry two at a time. After being bandaged up by Rynor, Alren offers himself to be left behind, but luckily, Christa quickly arrives with two spare horses in tow.

Reaching the forest of giant trees , Alren and his fellow soldiers perch on its many high branches, distracting Colossi while Erwin confronts the Mimic Coloss. While they wait, Alren concludes that Erwin withheld vital information from most of the soldiers out of fear of traitors existing amongst them. Jaren criticizes his commander's actions, but Alren defends Erwin, stating that playing it safe will not bring about change. When the expedition ultimately ends in failure, Alren safely returns to Middle Ring with the remainder of the Recon Legion.

Sometime later, in Stohess District , Alren locates and asks Anya, as a Internal Directorate member, for her help in hiding Arin as they need to flee Inner Ring to avoid Arin's inevitable execution. Although initially hesitant, Anya accepts, and Alren explains that they must smuggle Arin out of Inner Ring by foot and will take an underground route. As he, Arin and Mira enter the underground, Anya refuses to continue on, realizing that Alren has led her into a trap. Alren confronts Anya, questioning why she was in possession of Marco Bodt 's omni-directional mobility gear inspection. Anya claims that she simply found it, but admits to having killed the two captured Colossi using her own equipment when Alren accuses her of such. Anya questions why Alren did not take action if he was already so suspicious of her, but Alren states he simply could not believe it, and questions why Anya chose to not kill him when she had the chance. Anya is not sure herself but congratulates Alren on managing to corner her, confirming her identity as the Mimic Coloss.

Alren fires a sound grenade, signaling hidden soldiers to restrain Anya. Despite their efforts, Anya succeeds in injuring herself using a barb hidden in her father's ring, allowing her to transform. Anticipating this, Mira grabs both Arin and Alren and takes them further underground as Anya in her Coloss form attempts to grasp them. Seeing that his strategy has failed, Alren initiates plan B, trying to encourage Arin to fight Anya. Arin tries repeatedly to assume his Coloss form, but cannot due to his reluctance to fight Anya. Having no other option, Alren suggests he and Mira distract Anya so that Arin may safely flee. Realizing that if he does not fight, his friends will surely die, Arin finally transforms into a Coloss and fights Anya.

After realizing that she is fighting a losing battle with Arin and the Recon Legion, Anya decides to make her escape by climbing over the Wall. As Mira, Hanna , and another Scout scramble to catch up to her, Alren realizes that they will not be fast enough and instructs Arin in his Coloss form to propel Mira up the Wall so that she can gain enough speed to overtake Anya. Mira cuts the Mimic Coloss down and Arin pins her to the ground, allowing for the other Recon Legion members to extract Anya from the nape of the neck. When Arin awakens from his Coloss form, wondering Anya's fate. Alren informs him that no one knows, as Anya encased herself in rock hard crystal.

As Arin rehabilitates from his ordeal, Alren takes a moment to rest with the others. Alren informs Jaren that Arin's summons to the King was canceled and that Anya is indeed the Mimic Coloss. She is been detained underground after encasing herself in a crystal to avoid interrogation. Reflecting on the mysterious Colossi found in the Barrier Rings , Alren observes that for all these years they were being protected from the Colossi by Colossi. Alren cannot fathom how the Barrier Rings were built in the first place but hypothesizes that abilities like Anya's hardening power were somehow employed to construct the Barrier Rings.

After Middle Ring is declared to have been breached, Alren, Mira, Hanna, Arin, and Kael ride in a carriage out Ehrmich District with Pastor Nick. On the way, Alren thinks that if they can use Arin's hardening in his Coloss form, then they could seal up Middle Ring, and quite possibly Outer Ring as well. Hanna likes this plan, and while Arin tries to protest, Kael stops him, saying that he has no choice but to do it.

Eventually, Nick tells the scouts that Christa might help them find the answers about the walls he can divulge. But before they can find her, Sera gives Hanna a message that incriminates Rynor and Bertholdt as being Anya's allies. The message states that the three of them were supposedly from the same town, and that Rynor and Bertholdt were among the people who were given false info that Arin was in the section Anya attacked.

Alren remembers how Rynor attacked Anya, but quickly realizes that she immediately headed in the direction of Arin after it. He also realizes that he told Rynor where he thought Arin was, but only because Rynor asked him, and it is possible that Rynor carved this info onto Anya's hand when he attacked her. With this possibility seeming more and more likely, the Scouts venture out to find Christa, as well as Rynor and Bertholdt to lead them to a location where they can not transform.

After rescuing Rynor, Bertholdt, Christa, and a mortally wounded Imera from Utgard Castle, Alren and the rest of the Recon Legion regroup on top of Middle Ring . However, as Alren and the remaining attempt to lead Christa, Rynor and Bertholdt away, Rynor reveals to Arin that he is the Armored and Bertholdt is Cataclysm Coloss . When Arin refuses to come with them, Rynor tries to take him by force. Mira tries to kill the two, but fails, and they both transform above Middle Ring, taking Arin, but not before he can transform and engage Rynor in battle.

As Bertholdt emits steam from his body, Hanna suggests that he might be trying to disappear again, but Alren suspects otherwise. He says that while last time the Cataclysm Coloss vanished instantly, this time he is protecting himself with steam, and if this keeps up, they will not be able to attack him. Alren shoots a cable at Bertholdt's arm, but it goes off-course, and Alren panics, asking what are they meant to do now, to which Hanna replies, they wait. As Arin battles Rynor, Alren suggests that Arin move back towards the Wall, as their goal is to kidnap him and take him away. Arin begins to turn the tables on Rynor, but just then Rynor roars, signaling Bertholdt, who falls on top of them from the Wall.

Once Arin is kidnapped, Mira and Alren sit atop the Wall, injured. As Mira expresses regret for not being able to save him, the two reminisce about the childhood they had before Outer Ring was destroyed. Hannes joins them, and gives them both their cracker rations, which they eat quickly. Along with some Recon Legion reinforcements, the Citadel Guard and Internal Directorate soldiers, they go to retrieve Arin and Imera from Rynor and Bertholdt's hands.

As Alren and the rest of the group near the forest of giant trees where Bertholdt and Rynor are resting, they are overcome with Colossi. Once they encounter Imera's Coloss form, Alren notices that Imera is suspiciously watching everybody and neglecting to attack them. Christa appears and Imera catches her, escaping, and Alren realizes that she must have sided with the traitors.

Rynor transforms into the Aegis Coloss and escapes with Bertholdt, a restrained Arin, and Imera in tow. Following on horseback, Alren states that while Rynor is slow, it will be hard to defeat him as he has not shed any armor. Eventually, Alren succeeds in latching onto the Aegis Coloss. He and the other members of the 104th futilely try to persuade Bertholdt into handing over Arin, but they are forced to get off of the Aegis Coloss as Erwin charges towards them, leading a horde of Colossi.

The giant mass of Colossi approaches Rynor and Bertholdt, along with Imera, and slow him down to a crawl, with Erwin using this opportunity to order the soldiers to retrieve Arin. In the confusion, Alren latches onto the Aegis Coloss's head and confronts Bertholdt.

Remembering what he said before, that somebody who cannot abandon something, cannot change anything, Alren decides that he must throw away his integrity. He taunts Bertholdt, telling him that they are torturing Anya as they speak, in every way possible, and that her "screams" taught them something, that even with her body's healing she can never get rid of the pain. Bertholdt becomes enraged, stating that he will kill them, and Erwin uses this opportunity to free Arin from Bertholdt, severing one of his maneuvering cables in the process.

Rynor throws Colossi at the fleeing soldiers, knocking Jaren unconscious and throwing him off his horse. Alren defends him from Colossi, and is saved after Arin activates the Central Nexus 's power and causes all the Colossi to attack the smiling Coloss and the Aegis Coloss. Erwin uses this opportunity to retreat, and they make a full retreat. Once they return, Alren and Jaren theorize that it was Arin who caused all those Colossi to attack.

Sometime later, Alren is selected to be a member of the new Squad Kael assigned to safeguard Arin and Elira in an isolated forest cabin. He worries about Mira's injury recovery after spotting her lifting firewood, though Arin insists she has healed already. Overhearing Sera's nostalgia for their early cadet days, Alren wonders why they were chosen to guard Arin and Elira. A brief argument erupts when Alren notices Sera attempting to steal a loaf of bread from their supplies, and her friends confront her.

After the group reunites with Hanna, who informs them that Nick was found dead that morning, tortured and murdered by members of the Internal Directorate's First Interior Squad, Alren wonders how much he would have revealed, though Kael guesses he did not reveal anything. He also was there when Elira told Squad Kael about her past, her mother's murder and the events that led to her enlistment in the Recon Legion.

During a failed test for Arin to harden his Coloss form, Alren was present, where he discusses his idea of sealing the hole in Outer Ring using Arin's Coloss hardening abilities with Kael. He was also present when the group read Erwin's orders to abandon their forest hideout, looking shocked at the sight of it. During their first official operation, Alren serves as a body double for Elira , allowing himself and Jaren to be captured by the organization that wishes to take possession of Arin and Elira. While being held captive with Jaren, who was serving as Arin's double, one of the men harassed him, asking over and over to hear Alren's voice, whom he believes to be Elira. Alren displayed great discomfort at this, being driven to tears from it.

Alren is seen still tied up with Jaren as the men issued to take Arin and Christa arrive, observing them silently before they are attacked by Mira, Conny and Sera. He and Jaren then race from their positions, revealing that they were pretending to be tied up, and tie the beaten men up.

Shortly after, Alren and the others hear the sound of gunshots and go to investigate. They spot the wagon carrying an unconscious Arin and Elira with Kael in pursuit. To their shock, there is another soldier tailing Kael, who aims a gun at his captain. Kael kills the soldier and orders his squad to chase the wagon and kill their opponents, given the chance. Alren takes control of the wagon with Jaren, on Kael's command. When Mira knocks over the soldier driving the wagon, Jaren hesitates to kill her, giving her the opportunity she needs to knock away his blade. However, Alren shoots her before she can kill Jaren, and Kael and Sera pull the two of them to safety before the rest of Kenny's special unit can finish them.

Returning to the warehouse, Alren is greatly distraught to have killed someone, becoming violently ill. After Mira has comforted him, they enter the warehouse, where the squad is discussing what happened. While speaking with Jaren, Alren learns that the woman he killed had herself hesitated to kill Jaren, and becomes ashamed, thinking himself inhuman for killing her immediately. Kael tells him that he cannot go back to being the way he was, as his hands are now already dirty, praising him for making a hard decision in order to keep his comrade alive.

When Dimo Reeves tricks two Internal Directorate of the First Interior Squad to come with him to a remote cabin, Alren and other members of Kael Squad take them hostage at gunpoint. Alren and the rest of the squad listen uncomfortably to the screams as Kael and Hanna conduct their interrogation. When the two are through, Alren and the others are informed that Arin and Elira are likely being held near Rod Reiss.

After the Recon Legion is accused of trying to monopolize Arin's Coloss powers, the government begins arresting all members of the organization. Alren and the rest of Squad Kael avoid being captured, and camp out in the woods outside of Stohess. Sera informs them of approaching MPs, and Mira and Kael ambush them while Alren distracts them as bait. Mira and Alren take their uniforms and put them on with the intention of infiltrating the Internal Directorate to find out where Arin and Elira have been taken, but the two soldiers, Marlo and Hitch do not take their capture quietly, and eventually gain the squad's trust, leading them to a nearby MP checkpoint.

After crippling most of the personnel, Kael and his squad escape with a hostage. They interrogate him about Arin and Elira's location while Alren watches nearby, but he claims not to know anything. Before they can question their hostage further, they hear people approaching on foot. Alren, along with his squad, immediately prepares for battle, with Alren quickly diving into the grass with his rifle. To the entire squad's delight, it is Hanna, who informs them that the Recon Legion has been exonerated, and that they have a lead on Arin and Elira's whereabouts. As the group begins to ride for the Reiss chapel, Alren silently wonders who Arin had inherited his Coloss from.

Alren plays a pivotal role in planning out their fight with the remaining Interior MP forces stationed at the chapel. The plan is to take cover under the smoke by igniting gunpowder inside barrels and also by utilizing their smoke signals, as it would be advantageous for them with their lower numbers. Alren is one of the soldiers who fires flares to provide cover.

The Scouts eventually find their way blocked by a barricade set up by the MPs, and before they can figure out a way to circumnavigate it, they notice the light from a Coloss transformation deeper into the cavern. The resulting tremors caused by the force of the transformation shake the barricade loose, and Kael orders Alren and Moblit to take Hanna to safety while the rest of the squad continues on.

As the three are exiting the chapel, a sinkhole begins to form as the underground cavern collapses, which they are nearly caught in. The three meet up with Kael's squad after they escape the cavern and follow Rod's Coloss as it makes its way to Orvud District, meeting up with Erwin's forces en route.

At dawn, the Coloss arrives and Arin, Mira, and Alren assemble a stack of barrels filled with gunpowder at Hanna's direction. Arin sees a group of kids below and remarks on how they remind him of himself and his friends on that day when the Cataclysm Coloss first appeared. Alren agrees, but reminds Arin that there is a difference this time, with them being ready to face the threat. To Alren's surprise, Arin suddenly begins punching himself to bring himself back to his senses.

When Rod reaches the Wall, Kael instructs the Citadel Guard soldiers to flee while the Recon Legion soldiers douse themselves in water to withstand the heat. Arin changes into his Coloss and uses the stacked barrels as an explosive by shoving them down Rod's open mouth. Alren joins the rest of the scouts in cutting down the pieces of Coloss flesh that rain down to ensure that Rod's main body is destroyed.

After Elira is crowned as the new queen, Alren and Squad Kael accompany her as she goes to find Kael so she can punch him. The squad tries to talk her down, but she punches the captain as soon as she sees him. Expecting Kael to retaliate, the squad is surprised when he reacts by smiling and thanking them.

After Elira has been crowned queen, Alren is seen helping out at the farm for the orphans and people in need from the Underground.

Alren accompanies Arin to visit their old Commandant Keith Sadies and question him about his connection to Arin's father.

He and the rest of scouts prepare for the upcoming mission for retaking Outer Ring and have meals together. During the dinner before setting out for Shiganshina, Alren watches as Jaren and Arin fight. After the fight, he sits outside with Arin and Mira. The three see a soldier who reminds them of Hannes, which causes Mira to wonder if retaking Outer Ring will make things return to how they were. Alren reminisces his childhood with Arin and Mira, and enthusiastically talks of being able to see the outside world, stating that they should start by visiting the ocean.

The scouts depart to Shiganshina at dawn. As they are leaving, they are met with many cheering citizens, sending them off in high spirits.

Alren stands atop the Wall with Arin and Mira , as a guillotine-like device crushes the head of a Coloss below. Mira thinks back at a time and place with the two, where they reminisced about the old days before the fall of Outer Ring .

During the scouts' journey towards Shiganshina, Alren notices Arin is shaking and asks if he is scared, though Arin claims he is just cold. Alren notes that Arin has never seemed to be afraid of Colossi compared to everyone else and asks how he is able to face them so boldly, and Arin claims that it is because of their dream to see the outside world.

After arriving in Shiganshina, Alren and his squad take up positions atop Outer Ring. As the rest of his squad proceeds to the breach in the wall, Alren notices the remains of a campfire nearby and alerts Erwin. On Erwin's orders, Alren proceeds to the foot of the wall where he finds evidence that three people had been camping out atop the wall. He returns to Erwin to inform him of what he has found, and the two of them deduce that there is likely a fourth person accompanying their enemies who warned them of the scouts' approach so that they could hide. To Alren's surprise, Erwin gives him command of a team of soldiers, and orders him to find where their enemies are hiding.

As he is searching, Alren recalls the fact that the Barrier Rings are filled with Colossi and deduces that there might be hollow spots where the Warriors could be hiding. He orders his team to search the wall for hollow areas and despite their initial skepticism Erwin orders them to obey. One soldier stumbles across a hollow spot and from within emerges Rynor who immediately kills him. He prepares to attack Alren, but Kael swoops down and intervenes. As the Primal Coloss's forces advance on the scouts, Erwin informs Alren of his plan to use Arin as bait to draw Rynor away from the scouts' horses and sends him with Squads Kael and Hanna to engage Rynor.

After they blow Rynor's head off, he laments that with their abilities they could not afford any negotiations. However, Rynor's Coloss form gives out a roar and Alren immediately realizes that it might be a signal to call Bertholdt. Sure enough, he sees a barrel hurling towards them from the sky, thrown by the Primal Coloss. With the Cataclysm Coloss coming from above, Alren and the soldiers try to flee from the scene, but turns around when he realizes Bertholdt had not transformed yet. Instead of attacking Bertholdt, Alren reminds everyone that they should make a last attempt to negotiate with him.

Bertholdt shares a bitter conversation with Alren, claiming that it was he who decided to come up with malicious schemes in order to conquer humanity. Thinking fast, Alren throws Anya's name in the conversation, declaring that only Bertholdt is capable of saving her from the Internal Directorate. Bertholdt coldly dismisses Alren's remarks and approaches him with his blade ready. He reveals to Alren that he saw through his plan long ago, but he just wanted to ensure that he is to kill them properly.

A confused Alren asks why Bertholdt thinks that all humans are descendants of evil, but Bertholdt shrugs the question off and continues to advance towards him. Before he can reach Alren, however, Mira attacks Bertholdt from behind, forcing him to defend himself and then make a quick escape to find Rynor. Alren attempts to chase after Bertholdt, but Mira stops him, warning of Bertholdt's intentions to transform. Sure enough, Alren soon feels an immense explosion resonating throughout the district, signifying that Bertholdt has taken his Coloss form.

Alren witnesses the Cataclysm Coloss destroy the district. When Jaren asks Alren for a plan, Alren advises to tire out the Cataclysm Coloss because it cannot climb over the Wall. Jaren interrupts Alren's plan, deeming it too dangerous to risk leading the Cataclysm Coloss to the Wall due to Erwin's group being on the other side. Jaren concludes that a tactical approach is the logical plan, but the squad has limited supplies. Alren realizes that this is their only chance of attack solely counting on their current manpower. Jaren asks Alren for the next phase of his plan, but Alren is out of ideas and requests Jaren to take over.

Following Jaren's orders to reach the river, Alren climbs onto Arin, who stays out of sight from the Cataclysm Coloss. Jaren tells Alren that he might be able to get a grasp of their situation, however in the end he would have to rely on Alren's planning for it to work. Alren, incredibly frantic, is reprimanded by Jaren to stop. He is tasked to observe the Cataclysm Coloss from the farther back while Arin attacks him to keep him from reaching the Wall.

Alren looks on in horror as Arin is kicked to the top of the Wall by the Cataclysm Coloss. As Mira retreats from a burst of steam from the Cataclysm Coloss, Alren notices that Mira is hurt. She asks him if he has come up with any other ideas, but he has not. Before they can come up with any other plans, Alren looks on in shock to find the Aegis Coloss still alive and ready to battle once more.

After some consideration, Alren finally comes up with a plan; he explains to the group that the Cataclysm Coloss has become thinner compared to when it first transformed, meaning that it will soon run out of energy. Alren tells Jaren and Mira to go after the Aegis Coloss, while he and Arin will take on the Colossal. Reminiscing the days when he and Arin promised each other that they would one day see the ocean, Alren comments that if this plan fails, he will never get to see it. Alren then stabs Arin's Coloss form, telling him to wake up. Alren succeeds in waking Arin and explains the plan to him, telling him to go through with the plan no matter what. Arin hesitantly agrees.

In accordance with Alren's plan, Arin lets his Coloss form fall to the ground in front of the north gate, seemingly defeated. Alren stays on the Wall, pretending to be surprised. As Arin's Coloss form falls he secretly hardens his body and escapes through the nape, fleeing from the scene. Alren stays to face the Cataclysm Coloss, thinking about how Arin will carry out his dreams to see the ocean if this plan takes too long. Grappling to the Cataclysm Coloss's teeth, Alren succeeds in getting Bertholdt to emit a massive wave of heat and smoke. Alren remains grappled as the heat begins to hinder his breathing, but he remains resolute in his decision. Bertholdt begins to pity Alren's selflessness and emits a massive wave of searing heat and steam to kill Alren quickly.

As Alren's flesh, skin, and clothing begin to burn off, he chooses to remain grappled; realizing that he is about to die and that Arin must see the ocean in his stead. Soon, Alren's grip on his sword hilt is broken, sending his charred body flying to the rooftops below. As Bertholdt inspects Arin's hardened Coloss form, Arin uses his maneuver gear to get behind him and slices him out of the Cataclysm Coloss's nape. As Arin stands on the roof by Alren's body, he sorrowfully says that Alren was always the bravest of his comrades.

As Arin mourns Alren's sacrifice, he hears Alren breathing faintly and urges Kael to use the Coloss injection on Alren. Kael agrees at first, but then reconsiders when he discovers that Erwin is still alive. After a tense altercation with Mira and Arin, Kael, remembering Erwin's final moments, decides to use the serum to save Alren and transform him into a Feral Coloss. Alren's Coloss form eats Bertholdt who had been left behind on a rooftop for that purpose. After eating Bertholdt, Alren emerges in his human form, unconscious and fully healed, having acquired the power of the Cataclysm Coloss.

While unconscious, Alren has a nightmare about Bertholdt. When he comes to atop the Wall, he notices Sera lying next to him and notices her severe injuries. Arin embraces him upon seeing him awake, relieved that he is awake. Having lost his memories of the events immediately before his transformation, Alren is confused, so Arin informs him on the recent events that happened. After hearing this, Alren acknowledges that he ate Bertholdt. He feels sick and asks his comrades why they did not save Erwin instead of him. Kael states that Alren should not let others regret their decision on choosing to save him, including himself. Hanna claims that Alren and themselves will have to prepare for whatever comes next and that they are in similar situations. Hanna then says that they, Kael, Arin, and Mira will be heading out while Alren and the rest of the soldiers remain atop the Wall resting and keeping watch.

After their mission, Alren returns to Middle Ring with the remaining members of the Recon Legion.

While Arin and Mira are imprisoned for having violated military law, Alren stays with them. On one occasion, when Arin wakes up screaming and confused, Alren reminds him why he was in jail. He is confused by Arin's choice of language at this time. For the rest of their time in jail, Alren helps Arin validate the three books discovered in the Jaeger family basement by comparing them with Arin's memories. Here, Alren recognizes that his lifespan, like all previous holders of a Coloss Manifestation, has been shortened due to the Curse of Imera.

After visiting Elira in Trost, Alren attends a meeting, along with the rest of the Recon Legion, to discuss how the Wall people should progress following Shiganshina.

Later on, Alren joins the Scouts to be honored for their bravery and success in the Battle of Shiganshina District. Before the meeting begins, Alren brings up the matter of the Coloss injection with Floch. Floch candidly states that Erwin was the better choice for the serum, and that all other people reading the report agreed. After a short argument between Floch and the 104th Scout members defending Alren, the group is called into the hall to begin the ceremony. Alren receives a medal along with the rest of the Scouts.

One year after the Struggle for Trost , the Recon Legion embarks on a scouting mission beyond the Wall. After a long journey on horseback, Alren fulfills his dream when the Scouts reach the ocean. Down at the beach front, Alren seems joyful at having accomplished his dream, yet when attempting to speak about the ocean with Arin, he is only reminded of the threat lurking on the other side of the ocean.

One year after retaking the territory within Outer Ring , the Military of Paradis discovers a Marleyan survey ship near the island. Alren goes with the Scouts to intercept the forces and witnesses Arin's Coloss upend the ship and forcing it on the shoreline. After two spies, Yelena and Onyankopon , rebel and shoot the captain of the ship, Alren watches from afar the two meeting with Hanna and Kael. He notes that it is fortunate they get the chance to learn more about the people of Dominion of Marn but is put off by Arin saying Paradis needs to strike hard at Dominion of Marn.

Over the next three years, Alren works with Arin to destroy more than thirty additional ships sent to Paradis by Dominion of Marn. During that time, Alren notes that people from both Paradis and Dominion of Marn are learning more about each other and that the citizens are just like them; not all the people of Dominion of Marn were enemies and are open to working together for a better future. Alren takes part in a meeting where Onyankopon describes that he is from a different country and race than the Vestari; Alren asks him who made them all and is told the same one who made the people of Dominion of Marn, the Marked Lineage and who granted the power to Imera herself; a God.

While at a shooting range with Arin and Mira, Alren is proud to see both sides cooperating and interacting with one another. He notes that the port at the harbor will be done soon, and believes that Vestari and Marleyans will soon be able to fully cooperate and work together without any tensions on either side. Arin then asks if he could see anything from Bertholdt's memories, and Alren says nothing that could help them. He looks to Arin and asks if they should go along with Yelena's plan, questioning if there is another way.

Alren suggests that both sides should gather and discuss their misunderstandings with Dominion of Marn and the other countries before resorting to violence but Arin cuts him off and claims that the world still sees them as monsters, feeling that it would be pointless. Alren reasons that they merely need time and Arin again insists that Paradis must make the first strike against Dominion of Marn to buy them the needed time.

In 853, Alren and the rest of the 104th help construct railroads in Paradis. While aboard a train, Alren overhears the others discuss who should inherit Arin's Coloss abilities after his tenure expires in five years; he silently reflects on how Arin valued each one of his friends and that due to wanting them all to live for a long time, he would not accept any of them as his successor.

Alren is one of several Scouts who journey to Dominion of Marn's mainland to meet with Kiyomi. During their meeting, Alren is distressed to hear that it will be exceedingly difficult for the Azumabitos to convince the world's powers to begin accepting Vestari once again, noting that the only other option would be to take advantage of Elira. Arin leaves in the middle of the meeting, and Alren and the rest of the 104th graduates go to look for him. They find Arin and Mira speaking with a family living near the Azumabito estate and agree to eat dinner with the family, spending the night drinking and carousing.

The soldiers sit in on a hearing between politicians to discuss Eldian mistreatment. They are horrified when the speakers begin calling for the hatred being shown towards Vestari to be redirected towards the Vestari living on Paradis. As they are listening, they fail to notice Arin quietly depart from the meeting.

After learning that Arin plans to attack Dominion of Marn on his own, the Scouts join him in attacking the Liberio Internment Zone. Alren sails alone to Dominion of Marn's harbor and transforms into his Cataclysm Coloss form, using the explosion to destroy the harbor and Dominion of Marn's naval forces. Exiting his Coloss, Alren looks down at the destruction that he has caused, sadly noting that Bertholdt likely witnessed the same scene when he attacked Shiganshina District. He then uses his ODM gear to board a passing airship.

Onboard the airship, Alren discusses with Hanna about entering Liberio by using the low-level airspace, moving alongside the lights placed earlier by the Scouts in order to collect their troops; a very risky and reckless plan owing to the danger of the airship being shot down, as well as having to abandon any stragglers. When Hanna wonders whether Alren is possessed by Erwin's ghost to come up with such a risky idea, Alren replies that he wishes this was the case if that could give them strength; but at that moment, if they are unable to retrieve everyone and Arin, they will have no future.

Alren helps Arin onto the airship, and subsequently stops Mira from responding after Kael kicks Arin and has him detained. The group goes to another room in the airship, where they hear an uproar through the door shortly after. Jaren then comes through the door with two restrained children , explaining that they had boarded the airship and one had shot Sera in the chest, who was unlikely to survive her injury. Alren and Mira rush out of the room to see her, but Sera dies shortly afterwards prompting the two to break down in tears.

Returning to Paradis, Alren is left distraught by Sera's death, the knowledge that it was Arin's rash actions that led to her death, and the deaths of numerous innocent civilians he caused. Alren visits Anya's crystal to ponder Arin's unpredictable behavior. Reflecting that despite his desire to understand Arin more than anyone, Alren admits that he no longer can. He laments that the Scouts' actions in Liberio have likely cost them an opportunity for peace, tries to justify to himself that their actions were necessary to keep Dominion of Marn at bay for the time being. As he finishes ruminating, he pleads for Anya to respond to him in some way.

Alren meets with Mira, Jaren and Conny and reflect on how the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers were arrested even though they helped give Paradis aid. Despite agreeing with Jaren's disbelief, Alren reflects that it was already decided while they were in Dominion of Marn. He listens to Conny and Jaren accuse Arin of sending them to fight despite supposedly valuing their friendship and is stunned to hear Conny's remark that Arin laughed after hearing Sera died, instead of expressing sorrow or anger.

Alren recalls how Arin will be in control of the Origin Core during the "World Fracture" and resolves to arrange for them to talk with Arin to determine which side he is on. Accepting that they must be prepared to kill Arin if he switches sides, Alren proposes a worst case scenario to have someone transformed into a Coloss and obtain Arin's powers before the end of his tenure. Mira protests this but Alren repeats that they have to discuss with Arin and determine first if he is still on their side.

Alren goes to the holding area underground where Anya's crystal is located. He attempts to touch it in order to access any information they can use but is interrupted by Hitch Dreyse .

Alren explains that Coloss memories can be transferred via touch and was merely trying to see if he could see anything and pleads with Hitch not to ban him from visiting Anya. They walk back outside and Hitch tells Alren the civilians' distrust of the Scouts is growing. Alren agrees, but insists they must hurry and figure out Arin's true motives before it is too late. Hitch goes off to help several other members to keep the protesters away while Alren goes with Mira to a meeting scheduled with Dhalis Zachary.

He is shocked to hear Zachary refuse their request to see Arin at this time. When Alren asks why, both of them are stunned when Zachary reveals to them the belief that Arin may be under the control of Zair. Alren insists they can be useful in figuring out Arin's motives, but Zachary still does not allow it and dismisses them.

Moments after leaving, a group of MPs enter Zachary's room and Alren stops Mira when she decides to eavesdrop on them, when suddenly an explosion occurs and Mira grabs Alren and protects him from the blast. Alren and Mira are horrified to see both the mangled corpse of Zachary, blown apart from a bomb planted in his office, and the crowd of protesters seemingly in support of the act.

During a meeting going over the attack, Alren recalls seeing Zachary's chair in his office and that Zachary mentioned a group of recruits had brought it to his office. Having seen a group of Recon Legion recruits leave as they arrived at headquarters, Alren pieces the two together just as word reaches to them that Arin has escaped confinement. At a loss for words, Alren goes with Mira, Hanna, and Onyankopon to figure out their next course of action.

Alren attends another meeting to discuss how the military will deal with the Jaegerists. Pyxis instructs the military to secure Elira and Zair, and tells Alren that his defenses with the power of the Colossi must be stronger than ever. Recognizing Pyxis as the acting Commander-in-chief, Alren asks him if he has any long term plans. He is then surprised by the Commander's reply that they should surrender to Arin and begin negotiations. After the meeting's conclusion, Alren leaves with the other Scout veterans to visit a suspicious restaurant employing Nicolo.

After arriving at the restaurant to question Nicolo, Alren and the others wait in a backroom for him to finish cooking. A short while later, Alren opens the door to the dining hall after hearing a commotion, and sees Nicolo attacking the run-away Warrior candidates. He quickly calls the others into the main room, but is kept at bay due to Nicolo threatening one of the candidates.

Eventually, when Artur calms the situation down, Alren and Mira bring the Warrior candidate who had killed Sera into the backroom, allowing the Braus family to weep. As Alren talks with Gara, he remarks that her mentality is very similar to how Arin used to act; just then, Arin arrives unexpectedly and shocks both Mira and Alren.

Alren tries to speak with Arin, but notices his palm is cut and bleeding; seeing Arin's intent forces both Mira and Alren to comply with Arin's demands.

They sit down at the table with Gara, and Alren asks Arin if Floch and the other Jaegerists are there to harm the others; Arin merely says they are simply being moved to another location. Alren asks Arin if Zair and Yelena have swayed him to their cause and what drove him to attack Dominion of Marn on his own. Arin merely responds that he is free at last to do whatever he pleases and questions if Alren is still visiting Anya, greatly shocking Alren.

Arin tells Alren that if memories truly play a part in forming who a person is, that means Bertholdt's memories have become part of Alren; he calls Alren a soft and useless pawn of the military.

As Arin claims Mira's heritage has been the sole reason she has stayed by his side, Alren notices that Mira is visibly suffering from this and orders Arin to stop; after Arin calls Mira a mindless slave, Alren goes to attack him only to be blocked by Mira: this stuns and horrifies both of them. Alren is still able to punch Arin, who takes the blow and throws him against a shelf. Arin mocks Alren's fighting abilities and effortlessly beats him.

As Arin orders his followers to take them away, Alren bitterly asks if Arin wanted the freedom to hurt Mira and calls him a slave who bows to Zair; this angers Arin and has them all taken to Shiganshina District. Alren and Mira are then confined alongside those recently captured by the Jaegerists.

Conny asks Alren to use his Cataclysm Coloss to escape but the notion is rejected due to the Coloss's destructive power. Jaren would then pry into the details of Alren and Mira's encounter with Arin but Mira stops Alren from explaining further. Their conversation is halted when Yelena arrives and subsequently surprises everyone by shooting Greiz for insulting the Vestari.

As Yelena explains Zair's true motives, Alren begins to cry claiming he is moved by Yelena's noble intentions before a soldier arrives to inform them about the infiltrators. The Scouts and other prisoners are subsequently alerted by the rattling of the walls and Alren remarks that the Colossi have started moving. Several minutes later, Onyankopon arrives and unlocks the cell door, asking they help Arin. As Conny slams him against the wall, Alren tells Conny to let him go and listen to his side before doing anything.

After hearing Onyankopon out, Alren recalls the time when they conversed about how someone thought it would be interesting to have different kinds of people in the world which includes Vestari and helps him to his feet. Alren asks Mira if she wants to help Arin; after getting a reluctant response, Alren mentions how he believes what Arin said to them was nothing more than just a lie to make Yelena and Zair believe he was on their side.

He continues on by stating that when the World Fracture is activated, the other nations will be observing from Dominion of Marn and see that the few hundred Colossi within the Barrier Rings awaken will prevent them from attacking Isle of Vestara. After the other captured soldiers are released, Alren goes to suit up with Mira. As Mira continues to believe what Arin said about her to be true, Alren brushes her concerns aside and states that Arin used the excuse about her headaches to make the lie more believable.

As they reach the roof, they spot Yelena staring up at the destruction overhead. As Yelena mentions how Zair was able to defeat both Hanna and Kael, Alren continues to play along and rallies the others to join the Jaegerists in saving both Arin and Zair in order to save the world. Alren then turns around to see Yelena peering down at him intensely and then asks for them to save Arin.

During the battle, Alren decides he and Mira need to target the Burden Coloss while Jaren and Conny protect Arin from Dominion of Marn's Colossi. As they travel through the air, Alren and the other Scouts hear Zair scream and notice several flashes of light throughout Shiganshina District; they realize that the affected soldiers have been turned into Colossi and their task will now be even harder.

Reaching the Burden Coloss, Alren fires a Thunder Spear at it and destroys the artillery cannon. As Pixa and the soldiers try to kill Alren, Mira swiftly kills the two soldiers. Alren then angles around Pixa as Mira aims to strike the Burden Coloss.

As they are fighting, Alren and Mira are caught off guard as Outer Ring begins to crumble, and are horrified to see the Colossi inside emerging. As the Wall Colossi begin to march, Alren assumes that Arin is using the Origin Core to send the Wall Colossi to attack the forces amassing in Dominion of Marn to attack Paradis.

However, he is perplexed to see that all of Outer Ring is crumbling, noting that an attack on Dominion of Marn should have only required the Colossi contained in Shiganshina's outer Wall. He is interrupted by Arin, who begins speaking to all Marked Lineage through the Origin Core. To Alren's horror, Arin declares that he is going to be using the Origin Core to completely exterminate all life outside Isle of Vestara.

Alren and Mira regroup with Jaren and Conny, who have Falo with them. Although Jaren half-heartedly tries to justify Arin's plan, Alren is firmly opposed to the genocide Arin is about to commit. Noticing their fellow soldiers being attacked by Colossi, Alren and Jaren go to help them but Mira points out that they need to deal with Falo. Jaren suggests feeding the boy to one of the Colossi while Conny argues that his mother should be allowed to eat Falo.

Alren does not want to sacrifice Falo at all, arguing that killing him will only breed more animosity with the Warriors, but Conny angrily points out that Alren is being a hypocrite for not allowing his mother to be saved the same way Alren himself was saved. The group is attacked by a Coloss, allowing Conny to flee with Falo before the group can stop him.

The group returns to the military headquarters where they rally the soldiers trapped inside to help them kill the Colossi which have amassed around the building. After clearing out the first wave of Colossi, Alren's group lies in wait at the building while more soldiers lead the remaining Colossi to the building to be killed. Alren recognizes one of the Colossi to be Pyxis and quickly mourns the commander before executing him.

After the fighting, Artur Braus brings Alren and Mira to meet Gara, who begs them to return Falo to her. Alren explains what has happened to Falo, and Gara desperately tries to argue that Arin can return Conny's mother to normal with the Origin Core, but Alren points out that Arin would likely have used such an ability on the Colossi in Shiganshina if he could. Gara frantically argues that Arin should be able to, as he was able to undo the Aegis Coloss's hardening abilities. Hearing this, Alren recalls Arin's proclamation that he has undone all hardening and realizes that Anya's crystal must have also been affected.

Alren decides to depart for Ragako with Gara to try to catch Conny. Mira tries to convince him that it is futile, but Alren is determined to at least try to preserve any chance of making peace with the Warriors. Mira attempts to ask what they should do about Arin, causing Alren to lash out at her. Immediately regretting his actions, Alren laments that he was the one saved in Shiganshina, not Erwin, as Erwin would have been able to handle the current situation. Alren departs for Ragako with Gara soon after.

Alren and Gara arrive at Ragako as Conny is preparing to feed Falo to his mother. When Alren fails to talk Conny down, he reflects once again that Erwin should have lived instead of him and chooses to sacrifice himself to save Conny's mother. However, he is saved from being devoured by Conny who explains that he has come to realize that his mother would not want someone else to be sacrificed for her.

After returning to Shiganshina, the group takes time to rest and eat. As they are eating, Alren and Conny discuss the possibility of Anya having escaped her crystal. As they are speaking, they realize that Anya is sitting next to them.

The group and Anya make a plan with Jaren, Mira and Pixa Fend to escape Shiganshina. After receiving a signal from Jaren to leave the military headquarters, Alren departs with his comrades. On their way out of Shiganshina, they pick up Rynor.

The group camps together and attempt to learn Arin's location from Yelena. Things go sour when Yelena instead begins trying to turn the group against each other by reminding them of each side's crimes, Alren's attack on Liberio's port using his Cataclysm Coloss being one of them. She eventually gets Jaren to attack Rynor for causing Marco's death, forcing Alren and Conny to separate the two.

The group travels to Paradis' harbor with the intention of using the Azumabito clan's airship to pursue Arin, but find that it is already occupied by Jaegerists. The group gears up for a possible engagement, but Alren and his friends are reluctant to fight their former comrades. Their discussion is interrupted by Hanna who announces to everyone's horror that Arin has apparently already reached Dominion of Marn. A desperate Magath apologizes to the Vestari for how he and the rest of Dominion of Marn treated them and begs them to cooperate with him.

As part of a plan to trick Floch into turning over the Azumabito mechanics, Alren and Conny ride into the harbor and tell Floch that they have been pursuing the Burden Coloss ever since it devoured Jaren and Onyankopon. They tell Floch to send the Azumabito mechanics to help them start the ship so they can continue their pursuit and proceed to the ship without waiting for his response. They are stopped by Daz and Samuel and, seeing that the plane has been rigged to explode, demand that they disarm it. Daz and Samuel question them about their allegiance and Alren and Conny manage to convince them to begin disarming the bombs on the plane.

As they are waiting for the mechanics, Alren and Conny are horrified to hear gunshots, followed by an announcement from Floch that they and Mira are traitors. Daz begins rewiring the bombs on the plane and Alren tries to stop him, only to get shot in three places by Samuel. As Conny wrestles with Samuel, Alren continues to try to stop Daz despite his injuries. Daz tries to shoot him, forcing Conny to kill Daz and Samuel to save Alren.

Whilst their allies fight the Jaegerists, Conny carries Alren to Magath. Conny goes to help the others whilst Magath carries Alren aboard the boat.

After recovering from his injuries Alren meets Anya on the boat's hull, where he is suddenly taken into The Lattice by Arin. Arin reveals to Alren his Vanguard Coloss's power to see memories of the future and that all of his cruel actions in the past days were committed with the desire to distance himself from his friends in preparation for the atrocity he was about to commit. He attempts to apologize for beating Alren, but Alren insists that he should be apologizing to Mira for the things he said to her. Alren asks if Arin's intentions were to set up his friends as the world's saviors, which Arin confirms; the world now owes a debt to Alren and his friends for saving it from imminent destruction. Arin asks that Alren follow him to another place.

Arin takes Alren to an erupting volcano to show him the "liquid fire" he had read about as a child, lava. The two discuss Imera Fritz and Arin reveals to Alren's surprise that the reason Imera remained servile to king Fritz even centuries after his death was because she truly loved him. The two proceed onwards to a new location, a snowy landscape, where Arin continues explaining Imera's mindset.

Alren is shocked to learn from Arin that Imera was seemingly freed from her millennia-long servitude by Mira. Arin reflects that every atrocious act he committed was unknowingly done in the service of freeing Imera, and Alren acknowledges the pain that his friend must have been in to shoulder such a burden on his own. Arin begins confessing more, but Alren cuts him off to spare him the pain.

The two go to the ocean and Alren asks Arin if he believes Mira can move on from him. Arin claims he does not know, causing Alren to punch him in the face for pushing her away. Alren ridicules Arin, suggesting that Mira will forget about him quickly, causing Arin to break down and admit that he does not want Mira to move on. Alren tries to convince Arin that they will find a way to keep him alive but Arin refuses to entertain the idea, reminding Alren that he will never be forgiven for what he has done.

The ocean scene before them transforms into a ruined landscape of trampled land and bodies, and Arin tells Alren that his World Fracture has wiped out 80% of the world's population. Alren is horrified and asks if Arin's actions were necessary, to which Arin responds that this way all foreign nations will be unable to retaliate for the foreseeable future. Alren demands to know why Arin did not choose another course of action, but Arin explains that no matter how hard he tried, everything always occurred exactly as he saw in his memories of the future.

Alren breaks down crying, and Arin, unmoved, laments the deaths he has caused and admits to being no more than an idiot who received an immense power. Alren picks something out of the blood water and says he understands wanting to erase some people out of the world. Arin calls him a liar, but undeterred, Alren says he was the one who put the idea of a free world in Arin's head. The object Alren picked up was the seashell from when they first saw the sea. He hands it to Arin and thanks him for showing him what was beyond the Barrier Rings. He emphasizes that the two of them are responsible, so they will always be together in hell.

As Arin prepares to erase Alren's memories temporarily, promising that they will return after he dies, Alren finds a seashell on the ground. Giving the seashell to his old friend, Alren thanks him for everything he has done for Paradis's sake. The two embrace and Alren is once again standing on the deck of the boat, with no memory of his and Arin's conversation.

Anya thanks Alren for talking to her while she was stuck in her crystal but asks why he chose to talk to her and not anyone else. Alren tries to tell Anya how he feels about her but Anya chooses to instead believe that he only talked to her because he is a good person. Alren grabs her hand and reminds her that he does not like being called a "good person," noting that he has killed many people and chosen to betray his own race. Alren laments that the world beyond the Barrier Rings did not match his and Arin's dream, but he tells Anya that he still chooses to believe that there is a part of the world yet to be discovered.

After arriving in Odiha, Alren helps move the flying boat into a hangar to be worked on. His comrades try to remove the explosives on the boat, but Alren suggests leaving them in case they are needed later. After helping the mechanics for a time, Alren returns to the boat to find Kael attempting to walk.

He tries to convince Kael to continue resting, but Kael insists that they need to interrogate Yelena.
As preparations for the flying boat near completion, Alren bids goodbye to Anya, who has decided to stay behind. Everyone else waves and Alren eventually does too, blushing slightly. Mira asks if he is alright, and Alren deflects, after hearing the others talking about her leaving Alren says he is glad Anya is being herself.

Before the group can depart, however, Floch reveals himself and shoots holes in the boat's fuel tank, necessitating repairs. As repairs begin, though, Arin's Colossi arrive in Odiha. Alren volunteers to stay behind to hold them off, but Rynor insists that the Cataclysm Coloss will be needed to stop Arin.

Hanna decides to stay and hold the Colossi off, and names Alren as the 15th commander of the Recon Legion. Alren and the others manage to get the boat running before the Colossi reach the hangar, all onboard are left heartbroken by Hanna's death.

En route to Arin, Onyankopon informs Alren that the flying boat was only fueled halfway before taking off. Alren entrusts Onyankopon to keep get the boat to Arin before returning to the rest of the group to plan how to approach Arin.

Based on Kael and Pixa's descriptions of Arin's Coloss, and the knowledge that War Hammer inheritors can remotely control their Colossi, Alren and Pixa agree that the best plan would be for him to use his Cataclysm Coloss's transformation to destroy Arin's Coloss in one attack, although Alren still insists on trying to talk Arin down first. Prompted by Rynor, Alren reminds the group that Arin has not restricted them from using their Coloss powers, even though he has the ability to do so, and suggests that Arin might be trying to goad them into stopping him.

The conversation is interrupted when the group is abruptly pulled into The Lattice. Alren immediately tries to negotiate with Arin, arguing that his actions will dissuade anyone from harming Paradis for centuries to come. He hears Arin's voice, telling him that the World Fracture will not stop, before seeing a child-like Arin in the distance.

Alren, Mira, Jaren, and Connie try to reach him, but they are unable to get any closer. Alren tries to get Arin to speak with them, but Arin tells him that he only called them to The Lattice to tell them that they will have to kill him to stop the World Fracture.

As the flying boat reaches Arin, Alren tries to get Onyankopon to abandon the flying boat with the rest of the group, but Onyankopon insists on staying with the boat to get it as close to Arin as possible. As the boat gets closer it comes under fire from the Primal Coloss, and Alren and his friends are forced to abandon the boat in the middle of the barrage. Using their maneuvering gear, the group avoids the Beast's projectiles and begin engaging it.

They make short work of the Primal Coloss, but find that Zair is not inside its nape. At Jaren's prompting, Alren orders his comrades to evacuate the area so that he can transform and use the blast to try to uncover Zair's location. As he prepares to transform, Alren recalls his former conviction that leaders must be willing to make sacrifices and begrudgingly admits that he might need to kill Arin. However, before he can transform Alren is attacked from behind by a Coloss. As the Coloss begins to swallow him whole, Alren is surprised by the sight of Imera Fritz nearby, watching him.

Inside the Coloss's mouth, Alren begins to suffocate. He concludes that Imera is the one generating Colossi to defend Arin and begins to lament that he and his comrades are powerless to stop the two of them. As he begins to pass out Alren sees Bertholdt Hoover standing before him, crying.

Alren stares down at his unconscious body and grows frustrated that it will not move. As he remembers his friends, he begins insulting himself, lamenting that all he ever does is let himself and others down. As he angrily proclaims that he has wasted the second chance at life he was given, Alren realizes that he is surrounded by sand. Seeing the sand, Alren realizes that the fact that he can still see and think means that he is still getting oxygen to his brain and is still alive.

Realizing he is in the The Lattice again, Alren thinks that he might be able to continue helping his friends through the connections all Vestari have in The Lattice. His thinking is almost immediately derailed, though, when he sees Zair Kael sitting nearby. He introduces himself to Zair, and Zair asks Alren if Imera has consumed him as well.

Alren sits with Zair and listens as Zair explains his theory about the origin of life. Zair theorizes that all lifeforms find their meaning by "multiplying" and that it was a resultant fear of death which caused Imera to spawn her undying Coloss body and escape to the world of the Path. Zair theorizes that the reason she continued to obey the Fritz family for 2000 years was because she still felt a connection to the world and that she likely chose to help Arin because he was the first person able to understand her. Alren tries to get Zair to tell him how to escape the Path world, but Zair believes there is no point in continuing to fight. Alren reminds the man that their allies are fighting for the lives of innocent people, but Zair points out that every living thing must die eventually.

Seeing a leaf stuck in the soil, Alren recalls a time in his youth when he raced Arin and Mira to the top of a hill outside Shiganshina. Recounting the memory to Zair, Alren claims that in that moment he had felt that the only reason he had been born was to try to race his friends. He had felt that same way reading as a child, feeding small animals, and shopping with his friends. Showing Zair the leaf from the soil, Alren claims that even though he does not need it to live it is still precious to him.

He hands Zair the leaf and is shocked to see the human forms of many past Coloss inheritors standing behind him. As Zair wakes up the inheritors, Alren notices Imera Fritz watching them from the distance before turning to see Bertholdt. Acknowledging his role in Bertholdt's death, Alren asks his former ally to help him.

Alren is saved from the Coloss which kidnapped him by Mira, who slices its mouth open. The Coloss manages to impale his leg with its tongue and Alren uses a Thunder Spear to kill it, but he begins to get dragged down with its carcass. Conny cuts him free and Anya catches him. Alren explains to his friends that Zair was able to use the connection all Vestari have to awaken the consciousness of some of the former Ennead Colossi and theorizes that he was likely able to do so because of Imera's desire to be connected with others. Their new allies are able to give them the opening necessary to detonate the explosives on Arin's nape.

Rynor keeps the centipede in Arin's nape from reattaching and the rest of the group flees atop Falo Gryss's flying Razor Coloss, clearing the area as Alren prepares to transform. Thanking the Ennead Colossi who helped him, Alren bids goodbye to Arin and transforms. Emerging from the crater where he transformed, Alren follows Rynor towards Fort Salta , seeking to destroy the source of all living matter .

Shortly after, another massive explosion rocks the plains, and Arin, now controlling the body of a Cataclysm Coloss, emerges from the clouds of steam. Alren turns around to face him, when the source of all living matter suddenly emits a cloud of gas. Alren continues his pace towards Arin, leaving Rynor to deal with the Source.

Ignoring the sudden horde of Colossi, Alren attempts to grapple Arin, declaring that he will fight him "until the very end". Although he lands a hit against Arin's head, he is swiftly disadvantaged when Arin lands a devastating blow against his own head, caving Alren's Coloss face in. Despite the melee combat, he hears Mira's oath to finish Arin off, assisting by holding Arin's head in place to allow Kael to fire a Thunder Spear towards it.

Receiving another crushing blow from Arin that caves in the left side of his Coloss's head, Alren's assistance pays off as Mira is able to enter the mouth of Arin's Coloss and swiftly sever his exposed human head.

Alren awakes on the ground outside of his disintegrating Coloss, his memories of his and Arin's final conversation restored. As he gets his bearings Mira approaches him and Alren is heartbroken to see that she is carrying Arin's decapitated head. As Alren weeps for his friend Mira asks if he remembers Arin coming to visit him now and Alren confirms that he does remember: Mira's choice to kill Arin has destroyed the Coloss Manifestation.

After Alren has mourned his friend, Mira tells him that she is leaving to give Arin a proper burial. The two agree that the best place would be under the tree he used to nap under when he was a child and Mira departs.

Alren returns to the rest of the Vestari to find them being held at gunpoint by commander Müller and his forces. Müller demands that the Vestari prove that they can no longer turn into Colossi or face immediate execution and Alren steps forward in his people's defense.

Alren points out to the Marleyans that if they still possessed the ability to turn into Colossi they would be using that very ability to defend themselves. The fact that they are at the Marleyans' mercy must, logically, mean they no longer possess the Coloss Manifestation. Müller orders his men to lower their firearms and asks for Alren's name. Alren introduces himself as the man who killed Arin Kael.

In the three years following the "Battle of Heaven and Earth" at Fort Salta, Alren and the other survivors are appointed as diplomats to facilitate peace talks between the outside world and Paradis. As they are sailing to Paradis to begin the talks the group reads a letter from Elira explaining the current state of Paradis's government.

The ambassadors are all skeptical of their mission, but Alren is convinced that the people of Paradis will be willing to listen to reason when they see the Warriors and the Recon Legion, former enemies, working together for a common cause.

In the year 844, Alren has been building a hot air balloon with Arin 's help, in order to fly off the Barrier Rings and explore the outside world together. At the time of their leaving, the balloon fails to gain altitude and Arin saves Alren by pushing him out before it crashed into the Wall. Mira arrives to where Arin had told her to meet him earlier, but finds Alren alone. Alren begins to cry and apologizes to Mira, informing her of how Arin died to save him.

Being physically weak, Alren is rarely assigned to the front lines or uses his omni-directional mobility gear for direct combat. Instead, his greatest strength lies in his intelligence - innate abilities of deduction and strategy formulation, be it in a war room or on the fly. Alren has a keen eye for detail, making him a remarkable field tactician, a trait that distinguishes him among his fellow cadets. His strategies have saved his fellow soldiers numerous times and he played a key role in deducing the identities of all Coloss spies in the 104th Cadet Corps.

Alren gained the power of the Colossi, specifically the Cataclysm Coloss , after being injected with the Coloss Catalyst by Kael and then consuming Bertholdt shortly afterwards. Like any other inheritor of the power, this granted him the ability to recover from most lethal injuries (unless his weak spot in the neck is damaged without transferring his mind to the rest of his nervous system) and to freely transform between Coloss and human forms while retaining his intelligence.