Anya Levar is a graduate of the 104th Cadet Corps, ranking 4th in the final classification. She later joined the Internal Directorate Regiment.

Anya Levar ( アニ・レオンハート Ani Reonhāto ) is a graduate of the 104th Cadet Corps and former member of the Internal Directorate Regiment . Her exceptional skill with swords and unarmed combat earned her the 4th rank, but she is noted to be a lone wolf that struggles to work with others.

She possessed the ability to transform into a Coloss known as the Mimic Coloss . She trained from an early age by her father , and is selected as one of Dominion of Marn 's Warriors . In the year 845, she is sent on a mission to retrieve the Origin Core , along with her fellow Warriors Rynor Feld , Bertholdt Hoover , and Marcel Galliard . As the Mimic Coloss, she served as a major antagonist prior to being exposed and defeated by the Recon Legion . After her defeat, she crystallized herself and was left in a comatose state. She was held underground for approximately four years before escaping during a battle between the Military , the Jaegerists , and the forces of Dominion of Marn.

Anya is a teenage girl of considerably short height with a small, yet very muscular build and physique. She has moderately short hair that is often tied at the back with her right fringe mainly draping over the right side of her face (though she tends to push it to the side on occasion; possibly for better visibility). She has an oval-shaped face, blonde hair, blue eyes, a Roman nose , and pale complexion. Her hair color is noticeably paler than most other blonde-haired characters and when untied, her hair reaches down the nape of her neck. Her eyes, although of considerable size and proportion, often have a sullen vibe to their appearance. Anya's casual attire mainly consists of a hooded sweatshirt underneath a jacket accompanied by dark gray pants. She is often seen in the Cadet Corps uniform and then the Internal Directorate Regiment uniform after graduation. Though Anya often wears hooded sweatshirts as part of her standard attire, she also wears her signature white hooded sweatshirt as part of her standard military attire. During her missions as the Mimic Coloss , it is implied that she always wears her ring which has a small, folding blade on her right index finger; using it as her primary source of causing self-injury in order to transform into her Mimic Coloss form at any time.

Four years later after being freed from her crystalized stasis, Anya no longer keeps her hair up and lets it hang loose. She still wears her Internal Directorate uniform and gains a brown cloak. Later, she maintains her white hooded sweatshirt with a shoulder holster and a revamped black pants worn by the 104th Cadet Corps when she sided with the others to stop Arin.

Anya's appearance as the Mimic Coloss changed quite drastically, though her overall physique and facial features remained mostly the same. Her body consisted mainly of exposed muscle tissue, in which there was a noticeably limited amount of skin coverage across her body, and fingers made out of bone. Along with a massive increase in height, her face was laden with muscle lining, notably underneath her cheeks, giving her the capability to stretch her mouth far more than it seemed possible, along with yellowish teeth. Compared to the majority of other Colossi encountered, Anya's Coloss form seemed much more physically fit and stronger, bearing a lean build with visible muscle definition and a feminine form.

Anya is considered to be an isolated, exclusionary type; friendships do not come to her easily. She is rarely seen smiling and often has an emotionless expression. She is apathetic and somnolent, with little desire to put in any effort into meaningless disciplines or activities, and instead focuses exclusively on making it into the Internal Directorate Regiment to obtain an easy life. Yet, she somehow does seem to hold a strange fascination and even feelings of respect towards people that have a deep sense of duty and righteousness - in those people who do care and who can devote their lives and even die for causes they believe in.

Anya's sense of humor tends to be mocking, sarcastic, deadpan, and surprising. It also sometimes expresses a partial truth, and it happens mostly in intense situations. For example, when she was cornered by the Scouts in front of an underground passage.

Despite Anya's usual cold and calm demeanor, she has been shown to emote her feelings in various ways. At the times she does lose her composure, she usually reacts with violence. She beats up Rynor Feld for his cowardice after Marcel was eaten and for trying to manipulate her to continue a mission that had, in her view, already failed. She was clearly angered when Rynor teased her about her constant avoidance in hand-to-hand combat training. Despite her seeming callousness, she has expressed a level of guilt and shock, most notably when apologizing to a certain corpse after the battle of Trost District . Anya is also known to be very dedicated in her mission as a Warrior , to the point that she had killed many innocent people to reach her goal (also attempting to kill many of her former comrades), and shed tears when she failed to capture Arin . However, she is not entirely remorseless; while she carried out her duty of disposing of her former comrade Marco , she did so with great distress and shed anguished tears at the sight of him being eaten. This incident would haunt her for some time afterwards. Though she is seemingly indifferent towards her capability as a competent hand-to-hand combat fighter, she remains proud of her skills and even appears to enjoy the very notion of fighting as deduced by Arin.

Anya is highly intelligent, able to think deeply about situations, and has shown considerable problem-solving ability and a quick wit. These personality traits, in conjunction with her calm attitude and analytical skills, make her a good tactician. While undercover as a refugee, and later as a trainee, she does most of the spy work for the Warriors. Anya also realizes the contradictions of the military training system within the Barrier Rings and is not fooled by the Marleyan propaganda. However, she is a bad liar, being called out on this by both Arin and Kenny , the former regarding her apathy towards her martial arts prowess, and the latter when she lies about being his daughter, even sarcastically insisting further. On the other hand, she is very good at spotting the lies of other people, seen when she realizes Alren Vos 's dishonesty far before they had even reached the underground tunnel, as well as Rynor's lie about befriending their fellow cadets as being nothing more than a pragmatic attempt to gain their trust.

She is extremely practical and self-aware, being honest about her strengths and weaknesses, and is rarely ever prone to self-deception or emotional mistakes. Furthermore, she had a casual acceptance of her negative personality traits, freely admitting her faults even to almost-complete strangers such as Marlo Freudenberg , calling herself worthless and evil with no hint of self-loathing. She is nevertheless capable of self-loathing, as seen when she claimed to be as selfish as the Marleyan government.

Nonetheless, what drives Anya more than anything is her desire for a normal life. Though she has no love for Dominion of Marn itself, the only reason she is so concentrated on her mission is that it because it would allow her to go back home to her father, and she had urged Rynor several times before her eventual capture to return to Dominion of Marn with the information they had gathered so far; despite her otherwise cynical and realist worldview, Anya managed to convince herself of the false notion that it would be enough to avoid punishment. When she lost Arin due to the actions of both Mira and Kael in the Coloss Forest , Anya saw the easiest chance to return to her father was gone and she began visibly crying in her Coloss form .

After escaping her confinement, Anya undergoes a significant change in character, becoming more open about working with her former friends to stop the actions of Arin and the Jaegerists . She also freely acknowledges to Hitch that she has committed unforgivable acts, something Anya normally would have kept to herself. Later, as the Wall Colossi trample through Dominion of Marn, she admits to Alren that she genuinely appreciated him visiting her for the past four years she was enclosed inside her crystal. Anya also tells him she sees herself as a monster.

After Anya's birth, her blood test revealed she was a Subject of Imera , which suggested her mother had an affair with an Eldian man. While it is unknown what happened to her mother, Anya was deported to the internment zone and later adopted by Leonhart who was relocated for similar reasons. Her adoptive father intended to train her to become a Warrior so that he could live a privileged life. Thus, from a young age, Anya underwent rigorous combat training with Leonhart.

Anya would eventually become as strong as he wanted; but in retaliation for all she had endured, she attacked him and left him permanently crippled. The brutal training she endured left her callous towards others, unable to find any value in whether one lived or died.

In her early childhood, Anya was relentlessly subjected to combat training in her hometown by her father , who reminded her often of the mission she was born to carry out. At one point during Anya's training, her father pushed her too far during a training session, causing her to snap and attack him, savagely beating him while he was down to where she crippled him. At some point, Anya was chosen by the Marleyan government to inherit the power of the Mimic Coloss .

Alongside the rest of her Warrior comrades, the six Colossi in Dominion of Marn's command used their powers to crush Mid East Forces , testing their abilities in the process. The six Warriors proved themselves to be more effective weapons than their predecessors, largely alleviating Dominion of Marn's concerns about entrusting the upcoming Isle of Vestara Operation to children.

In the year 845, Anya set out on a mission to exterminate humanity within the Barrier Rings and retrieve the Origin Core , along with her childhood friends, Rynor Feld , Bertholdt Hoover and Marcel Galliard , the wielders of the Aegis Coloss , Cataclysm Coloss , and Razor Coloss . Before her departure, her father apologized for his actions and asked for her to return home alive, assuring her that her father would always be on her side.

On their journey, the four young Warriors were ambushed by a Coloss slumbering in the earth that tried to devour Rynor. As he stood in fear, Rynor was almost killed until Marcel pushed him away but was grabbed and devoured instead while Rynor, Bertholdt, and Anya watched in horror.

After escaping from the Coloss, Anya is able to find Rynor and angrily attacks him for his cowardice. She argues that they should retrieve the Razor Coloss's new wielder and return to Dominion of Marn, but Rynor attempts to manipulate her into continuing the mission. Anya continues to beat him, saying that she never bought into Dominion of Marn's brainwashing propaganda. Rynor manages to win the scuffle and forces Anya and Bertholdt to continue the mission, telling them that Dominion of Marn would kill them if they flee now and that this was the only way they could ever go home.

After Bertholdt and Rynor breached Shiganshina District , Anya regains consciousness in a refugee camp inside Middle Ring with Rynor and Bertholdt. While with the refugees, the three meet a man from a small village in the southeast of Outer Ring that was destroyed by the Colossi . The man is later found having apparently killed himself, and the three decide to co-opt his story as their own to cover for their lack of family records and preserve their cover. Anya would later compare the man's behavior to their abandonment of Marcel .

Days after infiltrating Middle Ring, Anya is seen among the refugees accepting rations from the Citadel Guard Regiment .

Anya later appears as an upcoming member of the 104th Cadet Corps , watching other cadets undergo Keith Sadies ' "rite of passage." However, the instructor does not speak a word to Anya and many others as their faces prove that they have already been through hell, according to another instructor.

Two years after that, during the hand-to-hand combat training, Anya is seen sneaking away, with Rynor confronting her about it. He has Arin face Anya, much to her apparent anger. However, the latter effortlessly takes the former down and Rynor soon follows, ending up on the ground as well. Arin praises Anya for her technique and even though she reveals that it was her father who taught her the move, as Arin shows interest, she dismisses the thought and claims such training to be useless and continues mocking the entire military system and even her father's ideals. Anya later watches as Arin uses her move to pacify Jaren Kirel .

She trains with Arin again later. In one exercise, Arin is upset with Anya's use of force, but she insists that she is only returning what strength is being used against her. Arin says that if strength alone decided their battle he would not be the one on the ground and Anya explains that she uses the strength and size of the opponent to her advantage, skills which Arin could afford to learn. She demonstrates her throw against Arin, locking her arms under one of his own and around his head while tripping him from behind.

Nearly five years into their mission , Anya investigates the whereabouts of the Origin Core in one of the cites at night and finds Kenny Ackermann . Hoping he will lead her to the real king of the Barrier Rings, Anya decides to follow him. When Kenny discovers and confronts her about it, Anya attempts to deceive him by telling him that she is his long-lost daughter. Unsuccessful in fooling him, Anya attacks Kenny and flees into the sewers.

The next night, Anya takes part in a meeting with Rynor and Bertholdt. She tells Rynor that Kenny might have seen her face and that she will not be able to do anything in the Interior MPs if he is there. She again proposes going back to Dominion of Marn with the information they have gathered so far, but Rynor insists that Dominion of Marn will not be satisfied with their progress after five years. Rynor decides to destroy Middle Ring to hasten their mission and smoke out the King in the capital while chaos would ensue in Trost District . Anya notes that his plan will kill a lot of his new friends from the 104th Cadet Corps, but Rynor replies to her that they are not friends and are just Eldian devils.

One year after joining the Cadet Corps, Anya takes part in a team navigation exercise in a group led by Thomas Wagner . Part way into the exercise, the group notices its ODM gear had been stolen. In response, they speed up their pace to warn the other group. They find the other group in the midst of a conflict with a gang of thieves. Anya and Mira ambush the thieves from a tree, managing to disarm them, and save the other group.

In 849, Anya and Alren assist Jaren in hunting for a wild boar to help in his cook-off against Sera . Despite leaving beforehand, Jaren's team find themselves completely lost, and return empty-handed. Later, Jaren suggests the three of them attempt to steal meat from an instructor, however Anya opts out, stating winning the competition is not worth the chance of getting caught.

Shortly after graduation, the Cataclysm Coloss appears in Trost District and breaks through the outer gate, letting Colossi into the town.

In spite of the evacuation being finished, the cadets are unable to return due to insufficient gas and are left stranded, much to everyone's despair. Anya, Rynor and Bertholdt discuss what to do next, but are interrupted by Mira, who asks them where Arin is. She is then surprised to hear that he, along with most of his squad, were supposedly killed in battle. Trying to keep her cool, Mira attempts to shock everyone into action, with Anya and others rushing after her to reach the HQ and replenish their gas. They eventually manage to get there, albeit with casualties.

With the Vanguard Coloss fending off most of the Colossi attacking headquarters, Anya and others attempt to get rid of the small Colossi inside. During the plan, Conny and Sera fail to kill their Colossi, and Mira and Anya are forced to intervene and save them, with Anya killing the Coloss that Conny was supposed to.

After the plan's success, Anya, Rynor, Bertholdt, Mira, Alren, and Jaren stay back to observe the rampaging Coloss. As Pure Colossi begin to cannibalize the Coloss, Anya and Rynor argue that they should help it, claiming that the Coloss should be kept alive as it might serve as a powerful ally. They are silenced by the sight of Arin emerging from the Coloss's nape, revealing that he is in control of a Coloss ability .

As the soldiers carry Arin into Middle Ring they are intercepted by Kitz Woermann who believes Arin to be a threat to humanity. Anya, Rynor, Jaren and Bertholdt leave but are ordered not to speak of their discovery while Alren and Mira remain to defend Arin. Anya and the rest overhear the lightning strike that is caused by Arin's second, albeit half-formed, transformation into his mysterious Coloss form to defend Mira and Alren from cannon fire when Woermann tries to have him killed.

This alarms Rynor enough for him to rush near the vicinity of the lightning strike with Jaren, Anya and Bertholdt quickly following suit, at which point they witness the scene of Arin's Coloss form surrounded by soldiers of the Citadel Guard. They watch as Alren attempts to persuade the soldiers that Arin is strategically important for mankind until Dot Pyxis arrives and stops Woermann.

Shortly after Anya and the other Cadets and Citadel Guard members are gathered and informed of the plan to retake Trost by having Arin seal the hole with a boulder near the gate while the others defend him. Anya subsequently takes part in the battle in a squad with Jaren and Conny.

During the battle, Jaren's ODM gear breaks, leaving him stranded in the middle of the district. With Marco joining in, Anya and Conny work to keep all nearby Colossi distracted while Jaren attempts to find a replacement set of gear. He is eventually able to, and all four cadets retreat to the top of the wall, where they watch as Arin seals the breach in Middle Ring.

Later in the battle, Anya comes upon Rynor and Bertholdt as they are preparing to execute Marco, who overheard the two discussing their plans. Rynor insults Anya's conviction as a Warrior , bringing up the fact that she saved Conny's life from a Coloss, and demands that she prove her loyalty to the Warriors by taking away Marco's ODM gear, leaving him defenseless. Although reluctant, Anya agrees and disposes of Marco's gear. Anya, Rynor, and Bertholdt then retreat to a safe distance and watch woefully as Marco is eaten by a Coloss.

In the aftermath of the Battle of Trost , Anya is seen apologizing to an unknown corpse as she, Rynor, and Bertholdt assist in cleaning up the remaining corpses of other soldiers.

Soon after Arin's enlistment into the Recon Legion , Anya kills the two Colossi captured for research, Sawney and Beane , and the Internal Directorate Regiment checks the omni-directional mobility gear of the cadets. Anya offers Marco Bodt's ODM gear for inspection as her own, which prompts Alren to become suspicious of her. During this time, Alren, Anya, and Conny discuss which military branch they want to join. When Anya reveals that she will go to the Internal Directorate, Conny considers joining them too and asks for her opinion. Anya responds by telling him that it is his decision to make, not hers. When she learns Alren plans to join the Recon Legion, she asks him what he would do if he was ordered to die. He tells her if the reasons are good, then he will do so. Anya thinks he is weak physically, but yet he is very strong at heart. Ultimately during the draft, Anya leaves to join the Internal Directorate and is assigned to Stohess District .

One month later, on the day before the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission , Anya recalls her role in Marco Bodt's death during the struggle for Trost. The guilt of her past actions is further burdened with the anxiety of her upcoming task: infiltrate the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission and capture Arin Kael. Anya consults Hitch , her new roommate, asking for her to cover her absence tomorrow. Hitch agrees, but only on the condition that Anya would accept a task Hitch had been assigned. Her duty is to locate a missing girl named Carly Stratmann , daughter of the wealthy merchant Elliot G. Stratmann .

Anya visits the estate of the Stratmann family to question Elliot, who proves to have little information of value about his daughter. During their conversation, a visitor leaves a message for Elliot before taking his leave. Satisfied with the information, Anya leaves the Stratmann residence assuring Elliot that his daughter will be found.

Anya consults with her fellow MP Marlo concerning the history of Elliot's Marleen Company. Marlo informs her that the company once traded prosperously between Outer Ring and Inner Ring until the fall of Outer Ring , which reduced their business to horse-drawn coaches. Anya finds it suspicious that Elliot remains wealthy while his daughter does not work and his business is in decline, and researches Carly's police questioning records. She discovers a connection between Carly and Pit Lidors, a tavern in the poor area of Stohess.

Visiting Pit Lidors, Anya questions the bartender and a trio of rowdy patrons. The patrons become hostile with her, though their attacks are quickly put down with Anya's superior techniques. Discovering the illegal drug coderoin on them, Anya agrees to overlook their substance abuse if they answer her questions. The patrons give her as much information about Carly as they can and warn her of a man with a red glass eye who is searching for Carly as well. Anya blackmails them for further information, but the bartender insists they know nothing more. He suggests she should search South Aachen Street for Kemper Boltz , Carly's lover, who may know her whereabouts.

After a short break in which her guilt over Marco's death once again haunts her, Anya heads to South Aachen Street to search for Kemper. Her driver refuses to wait for her to return, being wary of the bad neighborhood he has taken her to. Coming across a group of ruffians, and one attempts to threaten her. Quickly putting the ruffian down, his friends redirect her to Kemper's residence, Block 225. After a quick search of the apartment, Anya discovers a heavy supply of coderoin in Kemper's room. Furthermore, Anya discovers a corpse beneath Kemper's bed, knocking over a glass of liquor in shock. The noise disrupts Kemper's neighbor, who angrily demands for an apology. Keeping silent, Anya rushes to lock the door as Kemper's neighbor attempts to enter the room.

Anya is able to make it to the door and lock it in time, frustrating the neighbor until they eventually leave. Anya searches the body and finds a license to operate carriages, confirming the man as Kemper.

Returning to her carriage, she is ambushed by two men. As she is restrained, Anya notices that one of the men, Wald , has a glass eye. Lou takes her ring and Wald starts examining her notebook, informing her that they plan to take her to the industrial ward and throw her into a vat of waste to dispose of her. Anya tries to threaten the men to release her by telling them that more Internal Directorate would come looking for them but Wald dismisses her, revealing that Elliot told him she is working alone.

Anya tries to get them to return her ring, but Wald chooses to inspect it himself, finding its hidden blade. As Wald returns the ring to Lou, Anya goads him into stabbing her with the ring, allowing her to transform and destroying the carriage. Anya retrieves her ring and begins interrogating Wald, but is shot in the back by Lou. He takes her ring before shooting Wald and fleeing. Anya heals herself and gets Wald to tell her where Carly is being held.

Anya heads to Wald's office and knocks out everyone, including Lou. After threatening Lou, Anya finds Carly and takes her back to Pit Lidors. Anya asks Carly about her involvement in the coderoin trade and is surprised to learn that Carly produced the drug and that Elliot ran the operation. She learns that Carly made a deal with Elliot to produce coderion on the condition that it would not be dealt in the royal capital and ran away once she discovered that Elliot had broken the deal. Carly requests that Anya reports that she never found her.

Anya forges a Middle Ring travel permit and returns to the Pit Lidors. Carly bids farewell to the patrons and goes outside with Anya, gifting her donuts and limeade. Anya gives her the forged Middle Ring travel permit and Carly bids Anya farewell.

Anya returns to the mansion of the Stratmann family and accuses Elliot of killing Kemper Boltz, theorizing that Kemper was the one who left the note at the Stratmann mansion. The note was a ransom, and Elliot killed Kemper after negotiations failed. Elliot denies the claims, but confesses when Anya shows him a cigarette of the same rare brand Elliot is smoking that she found at Kemper's home. Together, Elliot and Anya dispose of Kemper's corpse in the industrial waste area of Stohess District. Elliot invites Anya to eat at his home some time, but Anya lets him know that such a thing is unlikely if she is able to return to her hometown.

At the Internal Directorate Regiment barracks, Anya files a false report about Carly and Kemper, claiming they had left for the capital under false names three days ago. As she showers, she assures herself that fulfilling her mission is her purpose in life. Thinking back to the time her father apologized to her before she left her hometown, she reminds herself of her current mission: to infiltrate the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission and kidnap Arin Kael.

As the Mimic Coloss , Anya attacks the right wing of the Recon Legion formation during the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission as she tries to capture Arin . Advancing further inside the formation, Anya encounters Alren . Although she corners Alren, recognizing his face under the hood, she decides to spare his life and continues her search for Arin. Alren, Jaren , and Rynor join together and deduce that she is an intelligent Coloss aims to capture Arin. Realizing that Anya may have acted upon false information as part of Commander Erwin 's plan, Alren is able to deduce that it is more likely for Arin to be within the center column, the safest location in the formation.

Alren, Jaren, and Rynor coordinate a plan in an attempt to distract Anya and buy the other soldiers some time to regroup. Before they are able to attack her, she is able to outmaneuver them, at which point she manages to incapacitate Alren. Although Jaren engages her in combat, her resilience and awareness of a Coloss's weakness allowed her to gain the advantage as she is constantly covering the nape of her Coloss form's neck. Before Anya is able to kill Jaren, a bloodied Alren attempts to distract her by referring to Arin by the nickname of "suicidal bastard" while falsely claiming his death. This causes Anya to hesitate in confusion, allowing Jaren the time to escape just as Rynor attempts to attack her.

Anya manages to catch Rynor in mid-air, briefly toying with him before seemingly crushing him. Much to Jaren and Alren's surprise, Rynor breaks free by slicing off her fingers and manages to come to Alren's aid leaving Anya as she sits motionless. Unbeknownst to them however Rynor secretly carved Arin's location on Anya's hand before breaking free. Just as the trio attempts to flee, Anya begins to head in the direction of the Recon Legion's center column formation, in which Alren deduced that Anya may have learned of Arin's position in the formation.

Anya continues to head in the direction of Arin's location, coming across various soldiers of the Recon Legion, brutally killing them in various ways. Though the formation heads into the Forest of Giant Trees , Anya follows suit and eventually catches up to Arin and the Special Operations Squad as they are attempting to flee on horseback. Anya is eventually lured into a trap in which her movements are halted by the special target restraining weapon .

This causes Anya to temporarily halt her pursuit as Erwin and members of the Recon Legion attempt to damage her hands in various ways with the intention of pulling her out of her Coloss form. Constant provocations by Kael cause her to let out a roar which causes multiple Colossi to converge on her position. Much to Erwin's surprise, the roar was intended to provoke the Colossi to devour her Mimic Coloss form, thus allowing Anya to escape from her Coloss form undetected via the use of her vertical maneuvering equipment. Just as Erwin orders all personnel to retreat, Anya later dons a Recon Legion cloak as a form of disguise, signaling with a green flare so as to lure Arin and the Special Operations Squad towards her direction.

As Anya meets up with the group, she is initially mistaken for Kael. Quickly it becomes apparent that it is not the captain as Gunther Schultz questions her identity. Anya makes quick work of Gunther, killing him using her blades by slicing out the back of his neck, like a Coloss. As Arin and the Special Operations Squad continue to flee, Anya transforms into the Mimic Coloss for a second time, thus continuing her pursuit to capture Arin. Although Arin initially wishes to engage her in his Rogue Coloss form, the Special Operations Squad manage to convince him to put his faith in them as they begin to engage Anya in combat. Although seemingly gaining the advantage to the point of injuring her and cornering her against a tree, the Special Operations Squad is outsmarted by Anya as she displays her ability of selective regeneration and her ability to generate a crystalline substance to protect her nape.

Anya systematically kills Eld Gin , Petra Rall and Oruo Bozad , causing Arin to turn back and finally engage her in his Rogue Coloss form. The two engage in a brutal fight using hand-to-hand combat techniques, in which Anya succeeds in incapacitating Arin's Rogue Coloss form by decapitating it. Tired and exhausted from the battle, Arin is captured by Anya by keeping him inside the mouth of her Mimic Coloss form. Although Anya begins to flee, Mira gives chase while continuously attacking her in a fit of rage after having witnessed Arin's capture by Anya's Mimic Coloss form. Mira is then joined by Kael, with the two working together to wound Anya as she continues to flee. Although Anya attempts to fight back, she begins to get overwhelmed by the barrage of attacks inflicted by Kael, allowing him to incapacitate her while gaining the chance to slice her Coloss form's mouth and rescue Arin from within. As Mira and Kael decide to retreat with the unconscious Arin, Kael witnesses Anya's Mimic Coloss form as it sits motionless while crying.

Some time later, Anya awakens in her room in the Stohess District of Inner Ring . Her hair is depicted as having the same appearance as the Mimic Coloss's when not tied up in a bun. Upon arrival with other rookie members of the Internal Directorate Regiment, Anya is teased by Hitch Dreyse and Marlo Freudenberg , but Boris Feulner tells them to leave her alone, believing that she has not recovered from battle and is the only one who has real combat experience. The group is then given an assignment in which they are to guard a Recon Legion convoy with permission to use their omni-directional mobility gear. Soon after departing for her assignment, Alren approaches her and asks for help in hiding Arin until they can convince the King to better protect the Barrier Rings. Anya refuses at first, but after Alren tells her he believes she is a 'good person', she reluctantly agrees while putting on a ring and escorting them to a place where they can hide.

When Arin and Alren attempt to convince her to join them in an underground passageway, she refuses for supposedly feeling frightened, all while expressing her suspicion towards their plan. As Arin and Alren continue to plea for Anya to join them and prove herself innocent, Mira, growing tired of their discussion, takes off her hood and draws out her blades while revealing her vertical maneuvering equipment. She openly refers to Anya as the Mimic Coloss, taunting her to fight just as two had fought before.

Their suspicion is confirmed when Anya noticeably smiles in relief and acceptance of their discovery of her identity as the Mimic Coloss. Anya laments that Alren is now looking at her differently, before praising him for having cornered her. She questions why he never revealed her identity, having discovered it several weeks prior, Alren tells her he could not believe it and asks why she never killed him. Anya is unable to answer, and instead confirms her identity stating that her gamble has only just begun.

After Alren fires a signal, disguised Recon Legion members come out of their hiding places, and restrain Anya. Seemingly captured and immobile, she still manages to flick her thumb to open a small blade hidden in her ring and wound herself, thereby allowing her to transform into her Mimic Coloss form; thus killing those restraining her in the process. Now, resuming her attempts to capture Arin, Alren and Mira realize how desperate she is, and try to get him to fight her.

Before Arin can muster his will to fight, Anya collapses the tunnel above his head and knocks him out. She then engages the Scouts posted around the district, killing numerous in her path. Jaren and Alren catch her attention, luring her into a special target restraining weapon trap organized by Hanna Vey . However, Anya quickly escapes the trap, as there had not been time to set it properly. Eventually, Arin transforms into his Coloss form and takes on Anya's Mimic Coloss.

Anya is chased by Arin across the district, stopping occasionally to trade blows. Mira and several Recon Legion squads also follow them, but are too far away to join the fight. The battle between the two Colossi lays waste to much of the district, but eventually, Arin attempts a rash attack on Anya and is dismembered for his effort. She proceeds to pound his head numerous times, knocking him out. After that, Anya tries to escape to Inner Ring. However, Arin's dismembered Coloss rabidly gives chase, and viciously attacks her. Seemingly terrified, Anya begins to escape by scaling the Wall. Not hesitating in the slightest, Mira cuts off all of the fingers of Anya's Mimic Coloss form, leaving her to fall. As Anya remembers her father's parting words to her, Arin immediately pounces on her Coloss. He is forced to pause his attack when Anya encases herself inside what appears to be an indestructible crystal.

While Anya is trapped inside the crystal, one of the Recon Legion members, Jaren, tries to break the crystal to extract her, but Kael stops him, telling him that it is no use. Shortly afterwards, both the Internal Directorate Brigade and the rest of the Recon Legion take her underground and detain her.

Later, when Arin in Coloss form is forced to engage the Aegis Coloss he recalls the technique that Anya taught him, and uses it against Rynor to temporarily turn the tide of the battle.

Her capture is eventually revealed to her comrades, when Alren bluffs and claims she is being tortured for information, which drives Bertholdt mad, distracting him long enough for Erwin to cut Arin from his bonds that tied him to Bertholdt's back.

While Marlo and Hitch are taken prisoners by Kael's squad, Hitch accuses them of getting Anya killed during the fight in Stohess . When she is informed that Anya was one of the Colossi responsible for the destruction, she is shocked.

After defeating Rynor's Aegis Coloss in battle, Zair proclaims that the trio will worry about saving Anya only after they have retrieved the Central Nexus from Arin.

While waiting in Shiganshina for the arrival of the Recon Legion, Zair explains his apathy towards Anya's situation, believing that the story Rynor and Bertholdt were told about her torture was a lie.

When Alren confronts Bertholdt, Alren reasserts that Anya is being tortured, but Bertholdt sees through Alren's bluff, claiming to not care about Anya's situation. As Bertholdt is eaten alive by Alren's Feral Coloss, he screams for Anya and Rynor to help him.

Shortly after the Recon Legion returns from its attack on Liberio, Alren visits Anya's crystal to confide in her. He compares the Scouts' assault to the Warriors' attack on the Barrier Rings, due to having no choice. Despite Alren asking Anya to answer him with something, she remains asleep within the crystal.

Alren later returns to Anya's underground holding area. After being spotted touching the crystal by Hitch, Alren claims that he was doing so in an attempt to unlock memories from his Coloss. Hitch mentions that it is nice that someone comes on a routine basis besides her to check on Anya.

After gaining full control of the Origin Core's abilities, Arin releases the Wall Colossi and causes the Barrier Rings to crumble away; this also causes the crystal around Anya to break apart, inadvertently releasing her from imprisonment.

Anya lies drenched and limp, surrounded by the broken crystal fragments. For the first time in four years, Anya's eyes open and her body begins coughing up liquid.

After somewhat recuperating, Anya easily escapes her confinement from within the basement and conceals herself in an adjacent room. When Hitch enters the room, Anya attempts to take the girl hostage but is easily beaten in her weakened state. Hitch tries to call for help but Anya reveals her cut, threatening to transform if Hitch were to call any more soldiers.

Despite Anya's meager condition, Hitch accepts her demands and willingly allows her to accompany her outside Stohess. While Hitch is preparing a horse, Anya reveals that she has a decent idea of what has been going on since she was in a semi-conscious state inside her crystal and could recall Hitch and Alren's voices. Anya then begins to wonder if Arin will destroy the world.

As they observe the Wall Colossi, Hitch asks Anya if all of the killing she did was justified in the end and Anya claims that she never cared about stopping the World Fracture. She tells Hitch about her harsh childhood training to be a Warrior and the last interaction she had with her father before she left for Paradis. Although she acknowledges that what she did to Paradis was irredeemable, she asserts that she would do it all again in order to return to her father.

After days of travel, Anya and Hitch arrive in Shiganshina during the middle of a festival. The two stop to eat, and Hitch goes to get refreshments for them while Anya waits. As she is waiting, she hears Alren and Conny talking about her and accidentally gives away her position to them. Anya chooses to go with them, leaving a note for Hitch explaining what happened.

Anya departs Shiganshina's military headquarters with Conny, Alren, Mira, Gara Feld, and Falo Gryss while Pixa causes a distraction for the Jaegerists. While leaving Shiganshina, they stop to pick up a comatose Rynor. Anya wakes him up from his coma by kicking him.

The group meets up with Hanna , Magath and their allies outside of Shiganshina and share a meal together. As tensions run high between the Warriors and the Scouts, Anya demands to know if the Scouts will be able to kill Arin if no other options are presented. Easily noticing the unease in Mira, Anya hypothesizes that if Arin does not back down and his death becomes a necessity, Mira will turn on them to protect him. Mira attempts to attack Anya, but Anya defuses the situation by assuring Mira that she has no issue with Arin living if he can be convinced to stop the World Fracture.

The group travels to Paradis' harbor, intending to use an airship to pursue Arin, only to find it occupied by Jaegerists. Anya has no qualms about launching an all-out attack, but Mira and Pixa point out that the Azumabito, who are needed to properly operate the ship, could be killed in the crossfire. Observing that her former comrades do not want to kill the Jaegerists, Anya demands that they explain a way to take back the Azumabito and the ship without casualties.

The argument is cut short by Hanna and Magath, who inform the group that Arin and his Colossi have apparently already reached Dominion of Marn. This spurs the group to proceed with a plan to trick Floch into handing over the Azumabito mechanics, with Rynor and Anya on standby in case things go awry. When the plan fails and the Jaegerists are alerted to their presence, the group takes the Azumabito to the basement of the building they are being held in, allowing Anya and Rynor to transform and attack the  without risk of collateral damage.

Despite their power, Anya and Rynor are quickly overwhelmed by the Jaegerists' Thunder Spears, as their attention is split between defending themselves and protecting the Azumabitos. Rynor tries to use his armor to shield Anya, but both Warriors are left crippled by the weapons, and it is only through the intervention of their former 104th allies that they are saved. Once it is time for the ship to depart, Mira needs to help Anya's injured form board it.

Once onboard the boat, Hanna reveals that they will be going to Odiha instead of Liberio , and Jaren and Mira have to restrain Anya in her distress. Hanna reveals that they do not have enough time to save Liberio, and Anya, overwhelmed, decides to leave the group, as she now has no reason to fight and states she is getting off.

Hanna tries to convince Anya to stay by reminding her that there are more lives at stake besides Liberio, prompting Anya to circle back to a question which she had asked before; will they be able to kill Arin and if she tried to kill him, would they be able to sit back and watch. However, shortly afterward, Anya's demeanor weakens and she states that she no longer wants to fight or be prepared to kill Mira, the rest of the Scouts, or Arin for that matter.

At some point, Arin pulls Anya and the rest of his friends into The Lattice individually in order to speak with each of them. He reveals his true intentions, to have his friends kill him so that the outside world will be indebted to them, and wipes their memories so that they will not remember anything he has revealed until after his death.

On the deck of the boat, Anya asks Alren if he has healed up and offers him to seat beside her. She then thanks him for talking to her while she was stuck in her crystal but asks why he chose to talk to her and not anyone else. Alren tries to tell Anya how he feels about her but Anya chooses to instead believe that he only talked to her because he is a good person.

Alren grabs her hand and reminds her that he does not like being called a "good person," noting that he has killed many people and chosen to betray his own race. Alren laments that the world beyond the Barrier Rings did not match his and Arin's dream, but he tells Anya that he still chooses to believe that there is a part of the world yet to be discovered.

After reaching Odiha, Anya watches as the others begin working on the flying boat. Mira suggests that she practice with the anti-personnel gear before they leave but Anya reaffirms her intention of staying behind, claiming to feel no desire to save humanity now that Dominion of Marn has been wiped out.

She looks at Alren and blushes, causing Mira to ask "when that happened" although Anya tried to deflect. Mira says staying behind it is fine, but that Alren is coming with them. Anya is aware, but that does not change her mind. She asks Mira if she will kill Arin to save the world, but Mira insists they will talk him down.

Later, Anya informs Rynor and Pixa of her intentions to stay behind. Rynor apologizes for having forced her and Beral to carry out the Isle of Vestara Operation, they hug, and Anya agrees to watch over Gara and Falo for him. As she returns to the ship, Conny shouts goodbye to her and the other scouts wave, Anya watches Alren who eventually brings himself to wave at her. After returning to the ship, Anya barricades the door to Gara and Falo's room so that they cannot escape.

On the ship's deck, Anya speaks with Kiyomi Azumabito who informs her the ship is sailing to Hizuru. Kiyomi admits that she feels responsible for bringing about the World Fracture and laments on her regrets, prompting Anya to reflect on her own experiences. However, their conversation is interrupted by Gara and Falo. The two theorize that Falo's Coloss is capable of flight based on the memories of one of Zair's predecessors.

Falo succeeds in using his Coloss to fly and he carries Anya and Gara to Fort Salta , although it destroys the Azumabito Ship. The group arrives just in time to save Mira, Rynor, Jaren, Conny and Kael from being devoured by an army of Colossi. Anya reveals this to the others, and begins to ask where Alren is, before deflecting and asking about Pixa. Mira immediately informs her that Alren was captured by Arin's Colossi and Anya agrees to help rescue him.

Kael decides to also have some of the group attack Arin's nape in the hopes of destroying the Founder while Alren is being rescued. Mira tries to protest, but Anya convinces her to focus on Alren so that she will not have to think about Arin.

Anya, Conny, and Mira manage to identify the Coloss which captured Alren near Arin's Coloss's tailbone and deploy to try to rescue him. As they fight the Coloss attempts to flee and Anya uses her Mimic Coloss to throw Mira after it. Mira is stopped from reaching the Coloss by an Aegis Coloss which Anya defeats, but the three comrades are quickly surrounded before they can stop Alren's captor from fleeing to Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss. Anya is quickly overwhelmed by the sheer number of Colossi, but she is saved at the last moment by the intervention of Bertholdt's Coloss.

Mira releases Alren from the okapi-shaped Coloss and Anya catches him as he falls to the ground. Alren is shocked to see her, and she says his name. Jaren manages to detonate Arin's nape thanks to the help of their new allies and Anya joins her friends in evacuating atop Falo's Coloss so that Alren can transform.

Returning to Fort Salta, the Warriors are greeted by the Eldian refugees from Liberio. Anya is bewildered by their presence but is overjoyed to hear from Karina Braun that her father is also present and immediately goes to look for him. She finds him farther into Salta, but before the two can properly reunite smoke begins pouring into the fort. The smoke causes Anya's father and the rest of the Vestari in the fort to transform into Colossi, to Anya's horror.

The Colossi all begin rallying to defend the source of all living matter as it attempts to return to Arin and Anya joins Pixa and Rynor in trying to hold the creature and its Colossi back with their Coloss forms. Because the three are focused on holding back the creature, they are unable to defend themselves as the pure Colossi begin attacking them.

Following Arin's death, the Coloss Manifestation is eliminated from the world and all of the Vestari return to their human forms. Recovering her memories of her final conversation with Arin, Anya mourns for her friend.

Her spirits are lightened when she is reunited with her father, but the happy reunion is short-lived as the Marleyan forces from Salta come out to confront them. The Marleyans threaten to kill them if they cannot prove that they are no longer Colossi, and only Alren is able to talk them down.

In the three years following Arin's death, the survivors of the "Battle of Heaven and Earth" at Fort Salta are made peace ambassadors between the remnants of the outside world and Paradis. As the ambassadors sail to Paradis to begin peace talks in the year 857, Anya voices her skepticism that they will have any success negotiating with Paradis. Alren is confident that the sight of the Warriors and the Recon Legion, former enemies, working together will be enough to get the Vestari of Paradis to listen, although Anya points out that she was in the Internal Directorate Regiment.

Out of the 104th Cadet Corps members, Anya is one of the strongest fighters alongside Mira and Arin. She was ranked as one of the top 5 cadets at 4th position, meaning a degree of skill in several military combat forms. Although she is ranked 4th, she is usually portrayed as being as good as Mira, but her being placed lower was most likely due to her slacking off and not taking things seriously.

Like her Marleyan comrades Bertholdt, Marcel and Rynor, Anya was capable of transforming into a Coloss, referred to as the Mimic Coloss ( 女型の巨人 Megata no Kyojin ). Her Coloss form was 14 meters, the third shortest, being rivaled by the Burden Coloss who was 4 meters and the Razor Coloss who was 5 meters. As the Mimic Coloss, Anya was easily able to overpower veteran Recon Legion members, and wipe out several squads in Erwin's specialized scouting formations. Anya acquired her Coloss powers while she was a Warrior candidate in Dominion of Marn and was trained with using them by the military of Dominion of Marn and by her father. During the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission of the Recon Legion , she was far more experienced in using her Coloss form compared to Arin, who had only discovered his Coloss powers recently. She was one of the more skilled of the Ennead Colossi, sporting a variety of presumably learned powers and special abilities, some of them not exhibited by any others with Coloss Manifestation. The Marleyan officials noted during Anya's training that she exceeded all of their expectations.