Arin Kael is a member of the Recon Legion, ranking 5th among the 104th Cadet Corps, and the main protagonist of Citadel of the Colossi.

This article is about the 104th Cadet Corps graduate. For the Dominion of Marn officer of the same name, see Arin Kruger (Anime) .

Arin Kael ( エレン・イェーガー Arin Yēgā ) was a former member of the Recon Legion and the main protagonist of Citadel of the Colossi . He was the only son of Grisha and Carla Jaeger , the younger paternal half brother of Zair Kael , and the last holder of the Vanguard Coloss , Origin Core , and the Forge Coloss .

Arin was born and raised in Shiganshina District , which is located on the southern edge of Outer Ring . He lived there until the year 845 , when the Colossal and Armored Colossi breached the Wall, allowing a flood of Colossi to invade and destroy the city. During the incident, Arin witnessed his mother being murdered and eaten by a smiling Coloss . This event aroused in Arin an intense hatred towards the Colossi, and he swore to wipe all of them off the face of the earth.

Soon afterward, his father, Grisha Jaeger, found him and gave him the key to his basement , instructing Arin to find it at all costs and retake Outer Ring. He then injected Arin with a Coloss injection .

Two years later, Arin along with his two friends Mira Acken and Alren Vos joined the 104th Cadet Corps . The three successfully graduated, with Arin ranking as the 5th best cadet, and they joined the Recon Legion following the struggle for Trost .

After finding the basement and unlocking his father's memories, Arin learned about the truth of what the Colossi are, as well as the history of Eldia and Dominion of Marn . Arin then vowed to free his home from their true enemy: the rest of humanity that lives across the sea .

Arin possessed the power of three Colossi . From his father, Arin inherited the Attack and Origin Core . After eating Lara Tybur during the Raid on Liberio , he gained the Forge Coloss as well.

Arin was a young man of average height and muscular build. He had a fairly long, yet rounded face, and sizable, expressive, teal-green eyes. His eyebrows were sparse and often furrowed, making him seem troubled or annoyed. Arin's hair was short and dark brown, with his bangs falling naturally into a middle-parted, curtain-type style. His complexion also seemed somewhat tan. After his training and during his time as a soldier, he became very physically fit and muscular.

Arin was first seen wearing regular townsfolk attire, which consisted of brown trousers, a green shirt with string tassels at the collar, a maroon coat, and simple brown shoes. A few years before the fall of Outer Ring , he also wore a red scarf, which he gave to Mira the day they met. Arin was often seen in the typical Recon Legion uniform when training. His casual attire consisted of a long, beige shirt (identical to that which he wore on his first appearance) that was worn with a maroon sash about his waist, brown trousers, and brown shoes. He always kept the key that was given to him by his father around his neck on a string.

By the time Arin infiltrated Dominion of Marn in the year 854, he had grown visibly taller, and his hair had grown down to shoulder length. He had a slight mustache and goatee, as well as bandages that covered his forehead and left eye. To maintain his cover, he wore the Eldian armband around his left arm, though he had initially worn the armband around his right arm before it got corrected by Falo Gryss . Later when he was imprisoned for the second time following his infiltration in Dominion of Marn, he tied his shoulder length hair into a man-bun style which shows two of his small fringes in each sides and being cleanly shaved.

As a Coloss , Arin's appearance changed quite drastically. Along with a massive increase in height (to 15 m ), his hair grew long enough to graze his shoulders, with his tongue and ears becoming elongated. His facial features also underwent a transformation. Along with a prominent, hooked nose, his eyes were deeply sunken within their sockets, and his mouth took on an unusual, jagged shape that is unsuited for intelligible speech, though he was capable of howling and roaring when expressing his exhaustion and anger. He also lacked lips and flesh on his cheeks, exposing all his teeth. A third transparent eyelid could also be seen on both of his eyes.

Similar to other intelligent Colossi , Arin's Coloss form was well-proportioned and physically fit, sporting a well-defined, lean, muscular appearance in lieu of the more common pot-bellied or emaciated appearance of regular Colossi.

In its burning state seen when it lifted the boulder in Trost and when it fought the Mimic Coloss , the Coloss was deep black, had burning marks all over his Coloss, and had blue eyes and sharp teeth instead of straight teeth.

Arin's Origin Core, dubbed Doomsday Coloss , was drastically different than Imera Fritz's Origin Core, or any other Coloss for that matter. It towered over the horde of Wall Colossi. What appeared to be the torso was devoid of flesh, resembling an enormous ribcage. The knobs of the backbone and ribs were grossly lengthened; the ribs reaching the ground while the arch of the spine extend far into the sky. The pelvis and legs were greatly undersized however, seemingly useless. Despite this, they were still taller than any Wall Coloss.

The upper body seemed proportional with the legs, meaning that they were dwarfed by the ribcage. The head was the only part of the body with much flesh, although it was significantly deformed: both the ears and hair were greatly elongated; the cheeks were missing, exposing the molars; and the bottom jaw was nearly bare, only the lips and chin being present. Like a puppet, the upper body was suspended by sinew, supported by the vertebral knobs like a suspension bridge.

The Coloss walked with its "ribcage", undulating the ribs like a millipede's legs. It was fast enough to keep within view of the rumbling.

Arin's Feral Coloss form was much shorter than his current Coloss form. It had short, rugged hair and a jagged, lipless mouth that exposed his teeth. The Feral Coloss form also had a stocky build, a big head, and elongated ears.

Arin was best described as hardheaded, strong-willed, passionate, and impulsive, which were attributes of both his strong determination to protect mankind and eventually escape the Barrier Rings . As a young child, he was so intent on joining the Recon Legion that he argued with and shouted at his mother , referring to the people in the village as "silly" and compared them to complacent livestock.

Arin cared deeply for Alren , his best and only friend before he met Mira , and most importantly, his family, risking harm and even death in order to help them. This quality was most often demonstrated in the form of Arin as a child taking on the larger boys who would bully Alren without hesitation; more tragically when he desperately attempted to lift the rubble crushing his mother during the Colossi ' assault in Shiganshina . In contrast, Arin was also capable of displaying very violent behavior in the defense of people he did not even know. This was highlighted when he brutally slaughtered two of the human traffickers who captured Mira in order to rescue her, despite the fact that they were total strangers at the time. Since witnessing his mother's gruesome demise and losing contact with his father , his fierce protectiveness to those he has left has only intensified.

Arin had a number of defining traits that date back to his childhood. He came to share Alren's awe of the lands beyond the Barrier Rings after the latter showed him a book depicting the wonders of the outside world, and decided to see it all for himself. This led him to develop a scornful attitude to anyone content to live and die within the confines of the Barrier Rings without ever setting foot outside. This very contempt may have been the reason he did not easily make friends with his peers. He resented both the Barrier Rings that "caged" them in like cattle and the Colossi that had driven humanity to erect them in the first place. As a result of this, he greatly admired the soldiers of the Recon Legion, regarding them as "heroes," and wishing to join their ranks as soon as he became eligible for enrollment. He easily took offense when anyone spoke badly of the Recon Legion, and his determination to join their ranks caused friction between himself and his mother, as well as to Mira.

Arin had a marked lack of self-restraint that often led him into trouble, causing both his friends and family to worry about him. His limited self-control and reckless behavior extended to his temper, and as a result, it was short at best and murderous at the very worst. When sufficiently provoked, his anger could drive him into a frenzy, accompanied by horrific levels of violence. Like many children, he tended to view the world in terms of black-and-white, having great compassion for humanity and its plight, but deeming those individuals who deny others their freedom as worthless scum unfit to be left alive. He also had the habit of thinking with his heart rather than his head, even in situations where his own life was in danger.

These characteristic qualities had become more highly pronounced since his mother's death. He then focused his destructive rage on the Colossi, holding a virulent hatred for them, with the goal to rid the world of Colossi one day. Fueled by vengeance, he vowed to personally wipe every single one of them out and restore mankind to its rightful place. Though he feeled great remorse for quarreling with his mother till the very end, he still continued to go against her wishes by seeking entry to the Recon Legion. So strong was his desire to exterminate the Colossi, he was plunged into despair when it seemed he could not even master the basics of the omni-directional mobility gear during training when his failure was in fact due to faulty equipment. He was unafraid to voice his intentions of leaving the Barrier Rings to eliminate the Colossi and was so consumed by his hatred that he seemed not to fear them at all, earning him the nickname "suicidal bastard" from the other cadets. Though Arin spoke about eradicating the Colossi with seemingly great confidence, his bravado hid deep insecurities.

He possessed great amounts of selflessness, perseverance, fortitude, and a vigorous determination; managing to graduate fifth in his class despite his lack of natural talent. He greatly appreciated and/or admired his comrades, and would swiftly fly into a rage if one of them was injured or killed in front of him. He prized human life, but his personal sense of justice dictated that anyone who stole away the freedom and dreams of others deserved to die. Though his ordeals since the struggle for Trost have taught him restraint, Arin still tended to behave quite rashly and spoke his mind even when he knew he should not. This had put him in grave danger on numerous occasions, and he often found himself having to be rescued.

Arin, however, tended to lose confidence in himself and blame his incompetence when confronted with how he could do little to nothing whenever something went wrong, believing a course of action he took - or failed to take - was the reason for the disastrous results. This includes when Arin put his trust in the Special Operations Squad when he could have fought the Mimic Coloss himself, resulting in the deaths of all of his squadmates save for Kael , and for the deaths of the many veterans that perished in the rescue operation after he had been kidnapped by Rynor Feld and Bertholdt Hoover .

Whilst assuming his Coloss form, Arin seemed to become more savage, bloodthirsty, and all-around uncontrollable. Though he was able to consciously control his Coloss body after the struggle for Trost, he could very easily become caught up in the pleasure of slaughtering his enemies, smiling as he prepared to torture or kill them, and indulging in thoughts so brutal he gave the impression of being insane.

Arin's ordeals since the coup d'état had mellowed his personality considerably. When he discovered the truth about his father the night Outer Ring fell, he was willing to ask Elira Rhos to eat him for the good of humanity. He admitted that he viewed himself as weak, and that his reliance on the Vanguard Coloss proved it. It took a lot of encouragement from his friends for him to overcome this state of despair and regain his passion.

By the time he found out from his father's books that Colossi are actually humans who were forced to transform by the Marleyan Government , he seemed to have let go of his hatred against them. When passing by a slow-moving Coloss en route to the ocean, he showed no signs of anger or unrest, and instead calmly called the Coloss a "fellow patriot."

Arin had been noted to be quite charismatic and had a talent for delivering impassioned speeches, often unwittingly managing to persuade the mass of his listeners to sympathize with his point of view. Even Jaren Kirel , his bitter rival, has admitted this, as he convinced over half a dozen recruits to consider joining the Recon Legion before the Battle of Trost . Four years later, he made use of this skill consciously, as shown when he easily lifts Falo 's spirits and convinces him to deliver a letter outside of Liberio , despite the fact that Vestari are usually forbidden from leaving the internment zone.

In the years since the recovery of Shiganshina, Arin had shown remarkable progress in his analytical and tactical skills, both in and outside of battle. Apart from maintaining his cover as a Marleyan soldier for an extended period of time and procuring a method of transporting his letters to the Recon Legion, Arin accurately guessed the source of Falo Gryss's injuries and the reason why he wanted to become the next Aegis Coloss . Later on, he successfully led Rynor into a trap, and in his battle against Lara Tybur , he quickly deduced the true location of the Forge Coloss . When he was unable to crack the crystal encasing her with his Vanguard Coloss's jaws, he was resourceful enough to use the Razor Coloss 's jaws as an improvised nutcracker to kill her and obtain the Forge Coloss.

Arin was aided in this by his unnervingly stoic and calm demeanor he developed since infiltrating Dominion of Marn, never losing his composure and usually wearing a blank expression on his face, no matter how dire or stressful the situation may be. Although he admitted to becoming angry when Koslow traumatized Eldian soldiers, he remained outwardly unfazed during the incident. Additionally, he appeared to have become less proud overall, thanking Mira for helping him, which he normally used to dislike and criticize her for.

His infiltration of Dominion of Marn had given him a change in perspective regarding his enemies. After spending time as a Marleyan soldier, he came to understand that his enemies were people no different from his own. Because of this, he deeply empathized with Rynor and the other Warriors who were sent to Isle of Vestara , letting go of his desire to kill them in revenge for attacking his home and stating that they were simply victims. Nevertheless, he still prioritized his personal mission of destroying Paradis' enemies for the sake of his and his people's freedom, regardless of how many lives are lost on either side. In spite of this, he seemed to have developed a dislike for war, referring to it as "hell." He believed that, with good reason, no one would want to go to war if they knew the suffering it would put them through.

Arin was ready and willing to use many unethical means to achieve his goals, such as when he declared war against Dominion of Marn, making the entire world his enemy. Arin abused the young child Falo's trust, fully aware of his family's precarious situation, and eventually killed numerous of innocent Eldian civilians (including children) as collateral damage in a surprise attack on Willy Tybur .

In spite of this, he seemed to have developed a dislike for war, referring to it as "hell." He believed that, with good reason, no one would want to go to war if they knew the suffering it would put them through. He also showed sympathy for the Vestari living in the world's internment zones, as well as towards Ramzi and his refugee family living without freedom in Dominion of Marn. While walking through Dominion of Marn he expressed regret and inner conflict with his future actions towards people outside the Barrier Rings as he recognized many of them were innocent people.

Arin's time-serving in the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War also seemed to have had an effect on his psyche to some extent. While he had shown great sorrow for comrades who have died on expeditions, and had demonstrated a great amount of compassion for his fellow graduates from the 104th, he laughed upon hearing that Sera Breen 's final words were "meat;" although he changed his reaction and was seen about to cry after Jaren Kirel accused him of being responsible for her death and remembered Sera's conviction that they would have more sheep and cows after recovering Outer Ring.

It was later revealed that Arin knew the future via the Vanguard Coloss's ability and had been spiraling down a state of depression realizing he would eventually enact the World Fracture , and knowing what the inevitable outcome of the present would be. While he did wish for a peaceful solution, he understood the impossibility of it better than all around him, even Alren.

After initiating the World Fracture, Arin had intended for the world to see the Vestari who stopped him as heroes. However, he was still unsure if his friends could have really stopped him, noting he would have completed the World Fracture if they did not. Arin could not pinpoint the reason he wanted to wipe out the world, recalling Grisha telling him "you are free" the day he was born. In a rare display of emotions since years, Arin broke down to Alren at the thought of Mira finding someone else after his death, and revealed his true feelings about her, causing Alren to pity him. Arin desired to be with Mira and everyone else, but knew he could not be forgiven for his actions after wiping out 80% of the world's population.

Arin was born in Shiganshina District in the southern region of Outer Ring to Carla Jaeger and Grisha Jaeger . During his childhood he encountered a crying Alren Vos , and questioned why he never fought back against the neighborhood bullies, after hearing the boy's reasoning of refusing to run, he formed a friendship with him, and went on to defend from bullies. Alren inspired his passion to leave the Barrier Rings and travel by showing him a hidden book about the outside world. He dreamed of joining the Recon Legion as soon as he reached the enlistment age, in order to see the outside world. Because of this dream, Arin and Alren were regarded as heretics and harassed.

When Arin was nine years old, he saved Mira Acken from being sold into slavery by bandits . On a visit to the Ackermanns ' home, he and his father discovered both parents murdered and their daughter missing. Fearing the worst, Dr. Jaeger instructed Arin to wait at the foot of the mountain while he got the Internal Directorate Regiment to conduct a search. However, Arin, wanting to rescue the missing girl as soon as possible, managed to track the bandits' trail to a small cabin in the forest behind the house.

Opening the door to the room where Mira was being held captive, he found her laying on the floor with two of the bandits keeping watch. Feigning distress and saying that he was lost, Arin got them to drop their guard.

As one of them closed in to pat his head, Arin slit his throat with a knife he had hidden behind his back and quickly ducked back out of the room. As the second man went after him with an axe, Arin charged at him with a makeshift spear, piercing him in the shoulder. Once he was down, Arin proceeded to stab him to death in a wild frenzy while Mira looked on in horror. As Arin untied her in the aftermath, he was caught off-guard by the third bandit, who proceeded to strangle him. Mira picked up the knife Arin used but balked at the thought of using it to kill someone. Arin urged her to fight back, warning her that they would both be killed if she did nothing. As Arin began to lose consciousness, Mira finally lost all inhibition and lunged at their attacker, stabbing him through the heart and killing him instantly.

When Dr. Jaeger eventually returned with the police in tow, he took Arin aside scolded him angrily for his reckless behavior. While Arin was genuinely sorry for upsetting his father, he expressed no remorse whatsoever for killing the bandits. When Mira remarked that she was cold, Arin gave her the scarf from his own neck; and when Dr. Jaeger invited Mira to live with their family from then on, Arin accepted her with no hesitation, tugging on her sleeve and shyly insisting that they return home.

After waking up from a nightmare interrupted by Mira, they stroll through the city and Arin expresses anger at being kept like cattle within the Barrier Rings , revealing his intentions in joining the Recon Legion . Mira scolds him, not taking his words seriously, and later reveals what he said to their parents.

Carla is shocked and angered, saying she will not let him join the Scouts due to their high mortality rate. She begs Grisha to talk some sense into Arin, but Grisha ignores her objections and instead announces that he will be leaving for a few days on a trip and that when he comes back, he will show Arin what he has hidden in the basement of their home. Enthralled, Arin joins his mother and Mira in waving him off. Carla reminds him that she will not allow him to join the Recon Legion, and they exchange a heated argument before he runs off.

Arin and Mira scare off bullies harassing their neighborhood friend Alren Vos . Arin offers Alren a hand but Alren rejects, expressing discontent with his abilities to protect himself and admits he is weak. The three stroll through Shiganshina and settle by the riverbank, where Arin reveals his intentions of joining the Recon Legion to Alren.

Suddenly, lightning strikes, and an earthquake breaks out. The three gather in the center of the district with other civilians, where they all gawk in horror at the sight of a Coloss larger than Outer Ring . The Coloss kicks a hole through Outer Ring's gate, sending massive pieces of debris throughout the town.

Arin and Mira hurry home as Colossi begin entering the district, arriving to find their house crushed by a large rock and his mother trapped beneath the rubble. She says that the rubble crushed her legs and she can not move, but Arin insists that he will carry her to safety. As they argue, a Coloss begins approaching the collapsed house. A Citadel Guard member, Hannes , arrives and Carla begs that he takes the kids and run. Hannes rushes to kill the Coloss and save Carla, but quickly changes his mind and takes Arin and Mira away. As Hannes carries the two on his shoulders and retreats, Arin witnesses as the Coloss eats his mother.

As the evacuation of Shiganshina is underway, Arin, Mira, and Hannes arrive in an alley and Arin starts attacking Hannes with leaving his mother. Hannes says that the reason Arin could not save her was that even though he had the courage, he lacked the strength, and Hannes himself lacked the courage even though he had the strength.

Hannes leaves Arin and Mira on the boat leaving the Coloss -infested city. There, Arin and Mira witness an Aegis Coloss destroy the back gate of Shiganshina. Arin, Alren, and Mira are forced to depart on the boat as Arin realizes that he can never return home, and vows to kill every Coloss in existence.

After the fall of Outer Ring , Grisha finds Arin and takes him into a nearby forest. Grisha instructs Arin to retake Outer Ring and gives him the key to the basement, before giving him a Coloss injection that turns him into a Feral Coloss. Arin instinctively eats his father, granting him the Coloss Manifestation .

After the fall of Outer Ring, Arin, Mira, and Alren briefly stay in a landfill working on a farm before reaching the proper age to enroll in the military .

After these two years, they begin their first day on the training grounds in the 104th Cadet Corps as commandant Keith Sadies grills the fresh recruits as part of their "Rite of Passage." Arin restores his vow to kill all Colossi, and that next time around, they will be the ones who will be devoured.

Before training, Arin draws a crowd of cadets at dinnertime, describing the fall of Outer Ring to them. He becomes sick as he remembers his mother being eaten, but when questioned attributes it to eagerness to begin his training and join the Scouts. Jaren Kirel interrupts Arin and mocks his decision, nearly leading to a fight between them. The bell signaling the end of dinner rings breaking the tension and the two drop their disagreement with each other.

The next day, the cadets begin practicing with omni-directional mobility gear . Arin utterly fails to keep himself steady and takes extra tutoring from Alren and Mira. He knocks himself out and at dinner, other cadets mock his performance.

Back at the dorm, Conny and Jaren do not offer any suggestions and Arin visits Rynor Feld and Bertholdt Hoover for help. Although they are reluctant at first, the group bonds over their similar experiences during the fall of Outer Ring. The three exchange tips and depart as friends.

Sadies gives Arin one last chance to pass his ODM test before he will be shipped to the landfills. At first, it appears Arin can maintain his balance but Arin quickly loses control and falls over. Sadies has Arin switch equipment with Thomas Wagner and Arin finds that he is able to easily balance himself and Sadies reveals that the equipment he had been training with was defective.

During hand-to-hand combat training, Arin admits to Rynor that he finds it unnecessary, claiming that it would be much wiser to run away when attacked by another human than to engage them. Rynor reprimands him for his attitude and points Arin to Anya, who is also slacking off. Egged on by Rynor, Arin tries to attack Anya with his mock knife to punish her for slacking off and is quickly disarmed by her unconventional fighting style. She makes short work of Rynor and Arin, enthralled by Anya's proficiency, asks to know who trained her. He is taken aback when she begins to lecture him on the military's flaws, pointing out that it awards its most talented cadets with positions far away from the Colossi, where their skills would be most useful.

Anya's words continue to bother Arin, who becomes annoyed at the idea of cadets trying to improve their skills just to stay away from the Colossi. Arin confronts Jaren for possessing such a mentality, which leads to a physical altercation between the two. Arin easily ends the fight by replicating Anya's moves and proceeds to lecture Jaren for slacking off during his training.

The graduation of the cadets draws closer until Arin finally graduates in the top 10 of the 104th Cadet Corps. After graduation, he is assigned to clean the cannons atop Middle Ring with Sera, Conny, and a few others. There they witness the return of the Cataclysm Coloss, who has not been seen in the last five years.

In the year 848, Arin and his fellow cadets embark on a navigation training exercise to learn how to sustain themselves in times of peace, during which he and Jaren continually get at each other's throats.

During the night, the group is ambushed while they sleep. Held at gunpoint, they are unable to do anything as the thieves carry off their ODM gear and Christa Lenz . Marco Bodt suggests abandoning the mission and getting help from Sadies, but Arin convinces the group to help him chase down the thieves before they can get away. Sera suggests using a higher vantage point to look for the bandits, and the group is able to successfully locate where the thieves are camping for the night.

The group devises a plan to confront the bandits. After Conny and Sera successfully block off the bandits' route out of the forest, Marco is able to determine which of their carriages they are carrying the cadets' stolen goods in, and alerts Arin and Jaren so that they can attack. When Arin and Jaren are able to recover the cadets' ODM gear, but not Christa, they use their gear to continue their pursuit. The group confronts the bandits again, but are left unable to fight when the men begin threatening Christa's life. Helpless, they are forced to hand over their gear again, only to be saved by the timely arrival of Thomas' group, who successfully ambush and capture the attackers.

Following the incident, Marco has a conversation with Arin, stating his belief that Jaren would have made a much better choice to lead the mission, to which Arin vehemently disagrees.

In the year 849, Arin and Mira confusedly watch a brewing fight between Sera and Jaren. Afterward, he attempts to unload a crate from a wagon but was unable to due to its weight. Meanwhile, he looks over at Mira, who is carrying three without any trouble. She offers to help him with his, but he angrily refuses. Later in the dining hall, Arin advises Jaren to be nicer to his mother .

When the newly graduated recruits of the 104th are assigned to clean the cannons on top of Middle Ring , the Cataclysm Coloss appears for the first time in five years. Arin faces the Coloss alone, but despite getting close enough to the Coloss to nearly slice the nape of its neck, it vanishes into thin air after kicking down Trost 's outer gate and dismantling the cannons atop the Wall.

In response to the crisis, the new recruits are split into squads in charge of defending different parts of the city. Despite their nerves, Arin's squad enters the battle in high spirits, viewing the upcoming battle as an opportunity to prove their mettle as soldiers before they enter the Scouts. However, things immediately take a turn for the worst when Thomas Wagner is devoured. Enraged, Arin tries to kill the Coloss, only to be incapacitated by a second Coloss biting off his leg. Arin regains consciousness just in time to save Alren from being eaten, being swallowed himself in the process.

In the stomach of the Coloss, Arin comes across the dead or dying soldiers who were devoured by the Coloss. As he remembers his goal to kill every last Coloss alive, his anguish triggers his first transformation into his Vanguard Coloss form. Bursting out of the Coloss that devoured him, proceeds to wreak havoc on all the Colossi he finds. In the process, he unknowingly saves Mira's life from another Coloss and is baited by Alren, Conny, and Mira to help fend off a procession of Colossi from a storage headquarters for the compressed gas used to power their ODM gear.

Eventually, Arin appears to run out of energy and begins to be overwhelmed by the Colossi. The sight of the Coloss that killed Thomas proves to be enough to drive Arin to throw off the Colossi holding him down and kill the Coloss by biting its nape off. As soon as the massacre is over, Arin falls to the ground and his human form emerges from the back of his Coloss form's neck, to the shock of all the onlookers. He is retrieved by an overwhelmed Mira.

When he regains consciousness, Arin finds himself cornered with Alren and Mira by a hostile military force which has decided to execute him as a possible threat due to his powers. Due to his hazy memories of what happened during the battle Arin is unable to answer their questions satisfactorily and they fire a cannon at him and his friends. Arin instinctively grabs onto his two friends and bites his own hand, partially transforming into a Coloss and blocking the cannonball with the Coloss's hand. While the cannon is being reloaded, Arin reveals to Mira and Alren that he intends to use his power to go over the wall and try to reach his father's basement on his own. Mira and Alren both protest the decision and Arin tells them that he will stay behind if Alren can convince the amassed soldiers not to kill him.

Alren's plea falls on deaf ears among the soldiers who have cornered them, but the trio is saved by the arrival of Commander Dot Pyxis , who intervenes on their behalf. Pyxis takes the three to the top of Middle Ring and questions Arin personally. Arin's answers satisfy Pyxis and the man calls his subordinates to help devise a plan to retake Trost with Arin's powers. A plan is made for Arin to use his Coloss form to reseal Trost's gate with a boulder that is in the middle of the district.

Upon his transformation to execute the plan, Arin loses control and attacks Mira before inadvertently rendering himself unconscious. When his body fails to regenerate, the mission is declared a failure. Alren arrives on the scene and convinces Mira to go help fend off the Colossi while he tries to get through to Arin. Alren manages to rouse Arin slightly by stabbing into his Coloss's nape and piercing his human body. Alren manages to bring Arin back by reminding him of their desire to see the world together, causing Arin to remember how he wanted to join the Recon Legion and destroy all the Colossi. Arin moves the stone and is able to plug the hole in the Wall. His strength expended, Arin emerges from his Coloss and his group is attacked from behind by two Colossi. They are saved by the timely arrival of Captain Kael , who has arrived ahead of the returning Recon Legion.

After the events of Trost, Arin is placed in the custody of the Internal Directorate and kept chained in a dungeon prison cell in the Royal Capital beneath a courtroom. While he is there, he is paid a visit by Commander Orwin Hale and Captain Kael. Upon hearing his motive to kill Colossi, Kael says he will accept him into the Recon Legion. Arin is left there for some time before being escorted by Recon Legion members to the courtroom where he was tried, with Premier Dhalis Zachary preceding over events.

During his trial, the Internal Directorate and Order of the Barrier Rings call for his dissection and execution while the Recon Legion, argues in favor of using his power to their advantage in scouting missions. After an outburst by Arin, Kael savagely beats him to prove that Arin will not pose a threat to him. It is decided his fate will be decided after a “test” mission with the Recon Legion. Afterward, Erwin thanks him for his cooperation.

After joining the Recon Legion, Arin is assigned to Kael's Special Operations Squad and sent to an abandoned castle which had formerly served as the base of operations for the Recon Legion. While there, he is tasked with cleaning duty by Kael while also helping Squad Leader Hanna Vey with their Coloss experiments.

During one of the experiments with his Coloss abilities, Arin is lowered into a well before being told to transform into a Coloss, in case he loses control. However, Arin is unable to activate his Coloss abilities. He is eventually brought back to the surface and have his wounds tended to by Kael's squad, who express their relief at his inability to turn into a Coloss. However, whilst bending over to pick up a dropped spoon with his injured hand, Arin accidentally triggers his Coloss ability in a partial transformation, creating a Coloss hand in a small explosion.

Kael's squad surrounds Arin, demanding that he prove he is not a threat to them, and the situation has to be defused by Kael and Hanna. After the incident, with the help of Hanna's deductions, Arin learns that a Coloss transformation requires him to have a clear goal in mind in addition to self-injury.

While he is with Kael's squad, Arin meets some of his classmates from the 104th Cadet Corps who have opted to join the Recon Legion. Arin is surprised to see Jaren among them and is given a lecture by Jaren about his responsibilities to humanity.

After a month of training, Arin and the Recon Legion embark on the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission . After leaving the safety of the Barrier Rings, the Scouts assume the Long-Distance Enemy Scouting Formation with Arin positioned at the center of the formation, where it is the safest.

It soon becomes apparent to Arin that something is going wrong with the expedition as his squad receives the news of the decimation of the right wing of the formation and notice black flares , despite the fact that they are in the safest position in the formation. Soon after, the Scouts head toward a Forest of Giant Trees . The central column of the scouting force, including Arin and Kael's squad, are told to enter the forest, while the rest of the soldiers were to stand guard at the perimeter of the forest to prevent any Colossi from entering.

Soon after entering the forest, Squad Kael is set upon by a seemingly intelligent Mimic Coloss , who is able to dispatch pursuing soldiers with ease. Seeing the soldiers perish one by one, Arin is tempted to use his Coloss Manifestation to fight the Mimic Coloss. Kael allows this choice, but recalling Kael and his squad's trust in him when he accidentally used his Coloss powers, Arin decides to trust in his team instead.

As the Mimic Coloss is inches from grabbing Arin, it is ambushed by a trap set by the Scouts. Arin and the rest of his team excluding Kael ride out of the forest firm in the belief that the Coloss was captured and her human self apprehended. This is proved false as the unidentifiable human form of the Mimic Coloss kills Gunther before re-transforming into a Coloss. The remaining three team members tell Arin to go on while they attack the Mimic Coloss. Arin expressed his desire to stay and fight with them, but again, is convinced otherwise and begins to retreat. Although the three soldiers manage to blind the Mimic Coloss and cripple her arms, they were caught off guard when the Mimic Coloss regenerates an eye much faster than they had expected, resulting in their deaths. Upon seeing this, Arin, filled with regret, finally transforms into a Coloss and engages the Mimic Coloss.

Even though he initially had the upper hand against the crippled Mimic Coloss, Arin quickly spends all of his energy and ultimately loses the fight. Mira pursues the Mimic Coloss as it flees with Arin and is able to save him with Kael's help.

The Recon Legion returns to Middle Ring in defeat, with the failure of the mission to capture the Mimic Coloss and the loss of the lives of many soldiers. Due to the mission's failure, Arin is ordered to be handed over to the Military in Inner Ring.

Before Arin can be handed over to the Military, he is let in on a plan by Commander Erwin to capture the Mimic Coloss, whom Alren has deduced to be Anya Levar. Arin is initially shocked and angry at the accusation, refusing to believe that such a betrayal by one of his fellow cadets is possible. However, after Mira tells him to think back to when he was fighting against the Mimic Coloss in the forest, he realizes that the fighting style the Mimic Coloss exhibited was exactly the same as Anya's, forcing him to come to terms with Anya's betrayal. He agrees to participate in the plan to capture her.

After Alren convinces Anya to join them in escorting Arin out of the city, they lead her to the entrance to an underground tunnel, where she refuses to continue following them. Despite Arin's continued pleas for her to join them and prove her innocence, Anya transforms and he, Mira, and Alren are forced into the underground tunnel to escape from her Coloss. As per the plan, Arin tries to transform but can not because of his disbelief at Anya's betrayal. As the Recon Legion tries in vain to capture the Mimic Coloss, Arin is reminded of the lives Anya took as the Mimic Coloss as well as his vow to exterminate the Colossi, allowing him to finally overcome his inhibitions, transform into his Coloss form, and engage the Mimic Coloss for the second time.

Even though Arin is in better control of his Coloss and is equipped with knowledge of his opponent this time round, he is ultimately no match for Anya's superior fighting technique and hardening ability. He manages to throw Anya into some buildings, but gets his right leg taken off by a hardened kick from Anya, who proceeds to slam him into a building and pummel his head repeatedly with her hardened fist.

Unexpectedly, Anya stops her assault on Arin and flees toward the wall, giving him the opportunity to drive himself into a rage, chasing after the Mimic Coloss. She is able to kick him aside and attempt to climb up the Wall with her hardened fingers, but Arin grabs hold of one of her legs. He is kicked off by Anya, but Mira slices her Coloss's fingers off, causing her to fall back to the ground where Arin can restrain her. He tears her head off and bites her nape clean off of her body, exposing Anya's human form inside. However, upon seeing Anya crying, Arin stops himself. This gives Anya a chance to use her hardening ability, encasing herself in a crystal, which causes her Coloss body to start merging with Arin as well. Arin is saved by Kael, who cuts him out of his Coloss before he can be encased.

Some time later, Arin wakes up in his bed, having recovered from his injuries. He is aware of Anya being frozen, with Jaren confirming that they got nothing from the operation. Unexpectedly, Alren states that Arin is the one who let that happen. After a short hesitation, Arin confirms that upon seeing Anya, he could not move. After Alren and Jaren leave, Arin confides to Mira about his feelings during the battle. Mira expresses herself to be happy that he returned alive.

When Middle Ring is supposedly breached, Arin is among one of the teams within the area to survey the Wall for the breach. While en route to Ehrmich District , Arin is appalled to learn that Pastor Nick helped keep the Colossal Colossi inside of the Barrier Rings a secret and begs him to tell them anything else he might know. Nick proves to be tight-lipped and Hanna instead decides to inform Arin of their plan to try to replicate the Mimic Coloss's hardening ability in Arin so that he can use his own Coloss's body to seal Middle Ring.

After learning from Nick that Christa Lenz will be able to divulge more secrets about the Barrier Rings, Arin accompanies Hanna's squad to Utgard Castle to save the soldiers trapped there. The soldiers arrive just in time to save their comrades, excluding the members of Squad Miche who have already died. During the rescue Arin kills his first Coloss while in human form but is scolded for breaking cover and endangering himself.

In the aftermath, Arin is among the soldiers on top the Wall recovering from the ordeal at Utgard. He questions Imera's condition and gives Rynor a hand up the Wall as Elira explains her true parentage. Helping Alren up as well, Arin checks on Rynor after hearing about how his arm was injured in Utgard Castle; this, along with the moment he was almost killed by the Mimic Coloss, causes Rynor to comment that he does not expect to live much longer and that they should keep fighting until the breach in Outer Ring is covered. Bertholdt reassures Rynor that they do not have to wait much longer and can return home soon. Hannes arrives with news that there is no hole or breach in the Wall, confusing everyone and prompting Arin to question if Hannes is drunk. As Hanna orders them to stay on standby in Trost District, Rynor wishes to speak with Arin in private.

Rynor reveals that he and Bertholdt are the Armored and Colossal Colossi respectively, and tells Arin that they will cease their attack on the Barrier Rings if Arin returns to their homeland with them. Arin recalls Hanna inquiring about Rynor and Bertholdt potentially being accomplices to Anya and tries to persuade Rynor that he is tired and simply not thinking straight. In response to Arin's disbelief, Rynor removes the bandage on his arm and reveals that his wounds are regenerating. Mira attempts to intervene and protect Arin but Rynor and Bertholdt transform into their Coloss forms and attack. Rynor grabs Arin while Bertholdt kidnaps Imera and Arin, disgusted by his former friends, transforms himself.

Arin and Rynor grapple with one another while Hanna's squad attempts to take Bertholdt down. Arin grows increasingly angry as he remembers all of the pain Rynor and Bertholdt have inflicted but he is unable to do any damage to Rynor with brute force due to the latter's armor. Instead, he opts to uses Anya's fighting techniques, grappling with Rynor until he locks his foe in a submission hold. As Arin holds Rynor, he focuses pressure on one of Rynor's arms, breaking the armor around the joints and tearing the arm off completely.

With Rynor crippled, Arin falls back to the Wall where Hanna orders him to find a way to destroy Rynor's legs so that he can flee without being pursued. Arin is caught off guard by Rynor attacking him head on, but he manages to lock Rynor in another submission hold. As Mira slashes Rynor's legs, Arin begins applying pressure to his nape, causing its armor to crack. However, before he can break Rynor out of his Coloss Rynor begins roaring, causing Bertholdt's Coloss to roll off the top of the wall, landing atop both of them.

Arin and Imera are taken to the Forest of Giant Trees by Rynor and Bertholdt. He attempts to transform into his Coloss form in spite of losing his arms, but Imera tells him his body is already expending too much energy to transform. While she questions Rynor and Bertholdt about the Primal Coloss they are after, Arin broods in silence as Rynor reveals that humanity has no hope in fighting against the Colossi. He and Bertholdt offer both him and Imera a chance to join them in order to protect their loved ones. Arin furiously refuses and blames both Rynor and Bertholdt for causing the hardship he has had to endure. Arin continues to violently resist his captors, causing Rynor to knock him out. His unconscious form is strapped to Bertholdt's back to be carried.

Arin awakes in the midst of an attempt by the Scouts to rescue him and immediately begins resisting his captors again. In an attempt to free himself from Pure Colossi which have begun to attack him, Rynor is forced to stop using his hands to cover Arin and Bertholdt, exposing them and giving Mira the opportunity to attack Bertholdt. As she rushes forward, Bertholdt dodges and Arin tries in vain to warn Mira of a Coloss behind her.

Alren distracts Bertholdt, giving Erwin enough time to cut Arin free from his captors. Mira then grabs him before landing on their horses. As they flee, a large Coloss is sent flying and creates a large explosion of dust. This causes some soldiers to fall off their horses including Arin and Mira. As the two pick themselves up, they are horrified to see the Coloss which ate Carla approaching them.

Hannes steps forward to protect Arin and Mira. While he distracts the Coloss, Arin shouts for Mira to free him, believing that he is the only one who can stop this now. But when he tries to transform into a Coloss, nothing happens because he is still recovering from his injuries.

He is devastated when Hannes gets eaten, devastated at the thought that nothing has changed from when he was 10 and was powerless to save either his mother or Hannes. Mira attempts to reassure him, telling Arin that she wants to thank him for teaching her how to live, and for wrapping his muffler on her which she always wears. Filled with newfound conviction, Arin vows to Mira that he will wrap the muffler around her as many times as he needs to. In a desperate attempt, Arin punches the Smiling Coloss in the hand as it reaches for him. Arin screams and another Coloss attacks the Smiling Coloss. Elsewhere around them, the Colossi that were fighting the soldiers turn and start running to the Smiling Coloss, surrounding and devouring it. Arin takes advantage of the situation and flees, carrying Mira on his back. When Rynor and Bertholdt pursue him, he screams again, and the Colossi turn to attack them.

Arin escapes with the rest of the surviving soldiers and they return to Trost District, where he learns that the Recon Legion lost more than half its veteran soldiers in rescuing him. No casualties were incurred on the way back, and Alren and Jaren theorize that it is because Arin was somehow able to control them. Arin resolves to learn how to control the Colossi, seal Outer Ring, and make Rynor pay as a way to atone for all the lives lost.

Some time afterward, Arin and Elira are sent away with the new Squad Kael to be safeguarded in an isolated cabin in the forest. Arin frantically attempts to clean their hideout before Kael's arrival, scolding Jaren for the lackluster cleaning on his part. When Kael arrives, he is dissatisfied with their cleaning, much to Arin's dismay. Holding off on that discussion for later, Kael takes his squad out to assist in Hanna's experiments on Arin's Coloss abilities.

Arin participates in Hanna's experiments without much success. He fails to show any signs of hardening, and upon a later transformation collapses in a smaller, malformed Coloss body. Hanna and Mira remove Arin from his Coloss, and notice his disfigured face from where he had begun fusing to the body.

After spending a whole day resting, Arin comes into the kitchen of the cabin and expresses disappointment that the plan to repair the Wall has been shelved because of him. Soon after, Elira tells him that it must be nice to have a goal in mind, even if it is difficult to achieve, whereas she has no idea what she wants now that Imera is gone. Arin is glad that Elira has started speaking again, but she apologizes that the good-girl Christa that everyone knew is gone. Arin admits that he never liked her previous self, finding it forced and unnatural. He prefers her now that she is a normal, honest girl. As he also remembers Imera, a memory of her talking to Bertholdt comes back to him.

After hearing of Pastor Nick's murder, Kael reads a message from Erwin and orders everybody out of the cabin. Outside, Kael reveals that the government is freezing all Recon Legion activity outside the Barrier Rings and demanding custody of Arin and Elira. Before heading for Trost, Arin hands Hanna a message detailing the conversation he had remembered between Imera and Bertholdt.

Arin rides alongside Elira in an enclosed wagon driven by Keiji , while Kael runs a decoy strategy with Jaren and Alren posing as the two. The wagon is attacked by members of the Internal Directorate, who manage to tear the roof from the wagon using their mobility gear . Arin picks up a musket to fire on the attackers, but is tranquilized alongside Elira. Despite an effort from Kael Squad to recover them, the two are ultimately kidnapped successfully.

Arin awakes in a large crystalline cavern, gagged and restrained by chains atop a raised platform. As he struggles to break free, he spots Elira approaching below him. He is glad to see she is safe and Elira assures him that her father has been misunderstood, having only acted in ways that are beneficial for humanity. Arin finds the cavern they are in familiar and Rod suggests that he and Elira lay their hands on Arin's back to help him remember. When they do, Arin begins seeing his father Grisha 's memories and is stunned to learn that he ate his own father.

Once the three of them are alone, Rod opens a satchel and reveals a syringe, which Arin recognizes as the same kind his father had used on him. Rod explains that the Origin Core's powers can only be fully utilized by a member of the Reiss family. Kenny, overhearing Rod's words as he returns, is distraught to learn he will not be able to use Frieda's power if he devours Arin. Intending to force Arin and Elira to battle each other over possession of Frieda's power, Kenny cuts open Arin's forehead so that he will be able to transform, before retreating to a safe distance.

However, Arin refuses to transform. Heartbroken to learn that Frieda could have put an end to the Colossi and prevented so many of the deaths that had occurred since the fall of Outer Ring, Arin begs Elira to eat him so that she can use the power that his father stole to save humanity. Moved by Arin's words, Elira incapacitates her father and begins freeing Arin from the restraints that still hold him, to Arin's shock and despair.

As Rod transforms himself into a Coloss, Arin begs Elira to allow her father to eat him. Elira refuses, explaining that even if she is an enemy to humanity, she is still Arin's friend. She is blown back by the winds created from Rod's transformation, but Kael and his squad arrive in time to save her and get the keys to Arin's chains. The ceiling begins caving in due to the sheer size of Rod's Coloss and the squad's escape is blocked. Arin realizes that everyone with him is going to die.

As the squad considers ways to escape, Arin apologizes for being useless and Kael tells him that he has a choice to make. Spurred by Kael's words, Arin grabs a bottle labeled "Armor" that had fallen out of Rod's satchel and bites into it. After transforming into a Coloss, Arin is able to harden it and reinforce the structural integrity of the cavern around it.

The squad climbs out of the ruined cavern and regroups to chase after Rod, who has become an Variant Coloss twice the size of the Cataclysm Coloss. Arin still considers being eaten by Rod to save humanity but Elira argues that the Reiss family has already tried undoing the brainwashing and once Rod has the Origin Core's power, he can alter everyone's memories so they have no interest in restraining him.

Elira argues that taking away the Reiss family's ability to alter memories was the only way to save humanity, prompting Arin to remember his father's words from right before he injected him. His father asked him to learn to control this power to save Mira, Alren, and everyone else. They meet up with Erwin and his forces, and the Scouts all proceed to Orvud District to intercept Rod's Coloss. While en route, Arin screams at Rod and punches the air in a vain attempt to activate the Origin Core and control the giant Coloss the same way he had controlled the other Pure Colossi.

Arin helps the scouts stack barrels of gunpowder together on a net of rope. He watches Elira stand up to Erwin and admires how strong she has become compared to him. Feeling melancholy that humanity has to depend on someone like him, he spots children in Orvud who remind him of himself as a child and thinks back to when the Cataclysm Coloss first appeared. Alren tells him that it will be different from before, because this time the soldiers on the Wall can fight back. Arin punches himself, to try beating out his feelings of uselessness.

When Rod's Coloss arrives and pulls itself up to the Wall, Arin transforms into his Coloss form. He takes the net stuffed with barrels and shoves it into the open mouth of the Coloss, which is hot enough to make the gunpowder ignite. This causes the Coloss's head and neck to explode and enables the scouts to attack the flying chunks of meat in hope of destroying the nape.

After Elira is crowned as the new queen, Arin tries to talk her down as she goes to punch Kael. Elira refuses to back down and punches Kael, but Arin and his comrades are all surprised when Kael reacts by smiling and thanking them.

Two months after Elira becomes queen, Arin and the other members of the 104th volunteer at an orphanage that she has started. As Arin helps Elira, she asks about the progress of his hardening experiments. Arin says they are going well, but wants to speed up the training before Rynor and Bertholdt come back. She asks what he would do if they meet up again, and Arin says he will have to kill them. Arin compliments Elira for the work she has done, prompting Mira to abruptly interrupt the conversation and take Arin's load away from him.

Thanks to Arin's hardening experiments, a Coloss guillotine is developed, giving soldiers a reusable weapon to safely kill Colossi without risking their lives. However, creating the materials for one puts a strain on Arin's body.

As Arin and his friends eat dinner in the mess hall, Arin recalls Imera's claim that her life was like a nightmare when she was a Coloss outside of the Barrier Rings. He wonders if there was a time when he was like that too, but all he remembers is what his father saw when Arin ate him. Jaren jokes that a headbutt from their commandant would bring the memory back and Arin realizes that the man his father had seen before his death was Commandant Keith Sadies .

The next morning, Arin, Alren, Mira, Jaren, Kael, Hanna and Sera visit Keith. Arin asks him to tell them all that he knows and Keith tells him how he met Grisha and everything he knows about him. Keith confesses that he is nothing more than a bystander and that he has no power to change things.

The day before the operation to retake Outer Ring, the soldiers have a feast in celebration. As Arin and Conny restrain Sera to keep her from eating everything, the two reflect on how much things have changed in three months since the battle of Trost. Jaren starts a fight with Arin by insulting him and their fight is eventually stopped by Kael.

After the fight, Arin, Alren and Mira have a conversation about their future. They talk about how strong and weak people need to combine their abilities in order to succeed. After mistaking a Citadel Guard soldier with Hannes, Mira wonders if they will be able to go back to easier times when they retake Outer Ring. Arin answers that it may not be possible, but that is the reason why they must make them pay.

The next morning, the soldiers are ready to depart on their mission. They become very surprised when they see that the civilians are cheering them. Finally, Erwin orders the start of the operation and Arin travels towards Shiganshina along with Squad Kael.

Arin stands atop the Wall with Mira and Alren , as a guillotine-like device crushes the head of a Coloss below. Mira thinks back at a time and place with the two, where they reminisced about the old days before the fall of Outer Ring .

While traveling on foot under the cover of night, Arin apologizes to Mira, who is escorting his horse in addition to her own, but she insists that he save his energy so that he can seal Outer Ring. Arin is surprised to find himself shaking in anticipation. He insists that he is just shaking from the cold, but Alren reassures him that it is normal to feel scared of the Colossi and reminds Arin of when he was nearly eaten during the Battle for Trost. Arin reveals that he sacrificed himself to save Alren that day because he had remembered the first time Alren told him about the outside world, which had caused him to realize just how much the Colossi had taken from the humans.

Arriving in Shiganshina, the Scouts quickly scale Outer Ring with their ODM gear. Soaring over Outer Ring, Arin transforms into his Coloss form and uses his hardening abilities to seal its hole. Mira retrieves him and carries him back to the top of the Wall.

While going to meet up with the rest of Scouts, Hanna orders Arin's squad to take up positions along the top of the Wall after observing a signal flare fired by Erwin. To Arin's shock, Rynor emerges from the inside of the Wall and kill a Scout before being attacked by Kael. As Rynor transforms into his Coloss form, Arin is surprised again by the sudden appearance of an army of Colossi on the outskirts of Shiganshina, with the Primal Coloss leading them.

On Erwin's orders, Arin descends into Shiganshina where he changes into his Coloss form and acts as bait to draw Rynor's attention. After leading Rynor away from Outer Ring, Arin begins to engage him, using his new hardening abilities to cover his fists in armor. Although he initially has the upper hand against Rynor, Arin is momentarily overpowered and pinned to the ground. He manages to regain control of the fight and throw Rynor off of him, and into an area where Hanna's squad can attack. As Arin watches, Hanna's squad blinds Rynor with their Thunder Spears before blowing open his Coloss form's nape and apparently killing him.

After being informed that Bertholdt is approaching, Hanna orders Arin and his comrades to retreat from Rynor's immediate vicinity to avoid the blast from Bertholdt's transformation. After Alren fails to negotiate with Bertholdt, Bertholdt transforms into his Coloss form and Arin uses his Coloss form to shield his comrades from the blast. Alren gives control of the squad to Jaren and Arin begins to retreat from Bertholdt's position on Jaren's orders, using a nearby building to keep himself hidden.

Arin attempts to draw Bertholdt's attention away from Outer Ring and the remaining Scouts. Bertholdt ignores him and Arin and his comrades are left with no choice but to engage him. As his comrades flank Bertholdt, Arin grabs one of Bertholdt's legs and attempts to push him back. Bertholdt simply kicks Arin into the side of Outer Ring, leaving him incapacitated.

After Alren wakes him up, Arin reluctantly goes along with Alren's plan, pretending to fall down to the ground and become immobile in front of the north gate while Alren pretends to act shocked. Escaping his Coloss form after hardening it, Arin then grapples onto the nape of the Cataclysm Coloss, slices it open, and yanks Bertholdt out. Once Bertholdt is incapacitated, Arin finds Alren's charred body.

Arin laments that he could not prevent Alren from being killed. He notices Zair closing in on him and threatens to kill Bertholdt if Zair comes any closer. To Arin's shock, Zair claims that he has been enslaved by his father Grisha's ideology and promises to save him. Before Arin can question him Zair retreats as Kael arrives. Noticing that Alren is still breathing, Arin begs Kael to use the Coloss Catalyst on him. Kael initially agrees before deciding to give it to Erwin upon learning that the commander is still alive. He tries reminding Kael of all that Alren accomplished as reasons that he should be spared. Kael ultimately chooses Alren. As Alren returns to his human form after devouring Bertholdt, Arin and the 104th reunite with him.

When Alren wakes up, Arin explains what has transpired to him, including Bertholdt's death. He, Hanna, Kael, and Mira make their way to his basement. However, they discover that the key Grisha had given him does not fit the lock. Kael kicks down the door and they enter an office. It seems to be nondescript until Mira finds a keyhole in Grisha's desk. Arin tries the key on it and it opens to reveal a drawer that appears to be empty. They find a false bottom in the drawer and underneath it are preserved books. Arin, with Mira, opens one of them and finds a picture of a family. On the back of it is a message of Grisha that the picture is called a "photograph" and that humanity has not perished.

Upon returning victorious to the Barrier Rings, Arin and Mira are placed in detention for disobeying orders from Kael and Hanna. While serving his sentence, he helps Alren verify the contents of Grisha's books regarding the outside world and the true nature of the Colossi by comparing them with his memories that Grisha passed down to him. During one of his nightmares, he is startled awake with the realization that Dina, Grisha's first wife, was the Smiling Coloss who had devoured his mother.

After spending a short time in detention, Arin and Mira were released by Kael and Hanna ten days early, who informed them that their punishment was only to set an example to the public, and that their help is needed to chart a new course for the Recon Legion after their losses at Shiganshina and in light of the new revelations about the outside world.

Arin and the survivors attend a meeting with the rest of the military, including the Queen, to discuss the results of the expedition to Shiganshina and the information about the outside world recovered from Grisha's books. During the meeting, Arin comes to the sudden realization that the reason he was able to activate the Origin Core's powers in the past was because he had physical contact with Dina Fritz, a member of the royal family. Arin chooses to withhold the revelation, reasoning that it is not the proper occasion to discuss such a controversial idea, especially if it involves having Elira turn into a Coloss so he can control the Origin Core.

The surviving Scouts later attend a ceremony to be commemorated with medals for their bravery and success in Shiganshina. Before the ceremony begins, Floch Forster confronts Alren about the decision to save him over Erwin, angering Arin. An argument begins but before it can escalate it was broken apart by Jaren. Alren, agreeing with Floch's argument, is comforted by Arin who reminds Alren of his dream to see the ocean.

Arin contemplates the findings of the basement, whilst receiving his medal from Elira. When kissing her hand, he receives a memory from his father, desperately trying to reason with Freida Reiss as she becomes possessed by the First King's will. Along with his father's memories of that night, Arin also receives memories from himself, sent to his father from the year 854 via the Vanguard Coloss, effectively allowing him to see the future. The memories he receives reveal that he will, in four years' time, use the Origin Core to unleash the Colossus Colossi enclosed in Paradis's walls and use them to wipe out 80% of humanity outside the walls. Arin is left horrified by the realization of what he will eventually do.

In roughly a year the Coloss Guillotine vanquishes all Colossi within Outer Ring, Shiganshina District is repopulated, and the Recon Legion holds its first expedition beyond the Barrier Rings in six years. The Scouts encounter a deformed Coloss which has been crawling towards the Wall, and Arin identifies the Coloss as a former compatriot. The Scouts follow the deformed Coloss's trail until they reach the edge of Isle of Vestara.

The Recon Legion go down to the beach front, dismounting their horses and taking off their boots. Arin agrees with an overjoyed Alren that the ocean is big, but solemnly notes that the other side of the ocean does not hold freedom as he used to believe. Enemies exist on the other side of the ocean and Arin wonders if killing everybody across the ocean will bring the people of the Barrier Rings freedom.

In the year 851, Arin works with Hanna Vey and the Scouts to prepare for Marleyan action against Isle of Vestara. Eventually, the first scouting ship arrives and Arin uses his Coloss form to pick it up and beach it on the shoreline. At a meeting between members of the Eldian Military, Arin supports the plan made by Zair Kael and reveals the encounter with Dina Fritz that caused him to activate the powers of the Origin Core. He explains to Hanna and Kael Acken that he stayed quiet so that Elira Rhos's life would not be threatened.

Over the next three years, Dominion of Marn sends a total of 32 scouting ships to Isle of Vestara, all of which are destroyed by Arin and Alren Vos. While at a shooting range, Arin asks Alren if he has seen anything from Bertholdt Hoover's memories that could help them. Alren ponders if it is possible for Isle of Vestara and Dominion of Marn to resolve their misunderstandings diplomatically, but Arin brushes him off. Arguing that everyone still sees them as devils, he reaffirms his position that Paradis must strike the first blow in order to buy the island time.

A year later, Arin later attends a meeting between Kiyomi Azumabito, from the nation of Hizuru, and the heads of Paradis on forming an alliance. When Kiyomi Azumabito presents Zair's plan to use the Founder to partially Rumble the outside world as a warning and pass the Coloss on to Elira and her offspring so that they can continue to use it as leverage for the foreseeable future, Arin adamantly rejects it.

In 853, while helping his friends build a train line, Arin is left crestfallen when Hanna and Kael arrive with news that Hizuru has been unable to find additional allies for them. As the group returns home after finishing their work, Arin reminds his friends that he only has a few years left to live. Arin ponders who should inherit his Coloss and his friends begin offering themselves. Arin, however, insists that his Coloss will not go to any of them as he wants them to live long lives.

Sometime later Floch allows Yelena to discreetly meet with Arin twice, where one was during a festival in Trost. Yelena explains Zair's plan to euthanize the Eldian race along with his plan to feed his spinal fluid to the Military's officers so that they will not be able to oppose his or Arin's movements. Yelena would later deny advising him to infiltrate Dominion of Marn on his own. Arin also learns from Yelena that Zair wishes to speak with him in regards to his true intentions to free Paradis.

Following his meeting with Yelena, Arin meets with Floch privately and tells him that he wants them to pretend to cooperate with Zair's plan. Floch asks what he actually wants to do while pretending to cooperate with Zair and Arin tells Floch his plan to use the Origin Core to kill everyone outside of Paradis. In another meeting, Arin, Yelena and Floch make plans to use a partial World Fracture to crush Global Allied Fleet as well as Fort Salta .

Later, Arin meets with Elira and warns her that the Internal Directorate are planning to feed Zair to her, advising her to either fight or run to avoid becoming one of the Ennead Colossi. Elira refuses to oppose the MPs, explaining that she is willing to sacrifice herself if it will save Paradis. Arin reveals his plan to destroy the outside world to her, horrifying Elira. Elira rejects this but asks Arin about the possibility of her having a child with someone to delay eating Zair.

She reminds Arin that most of the people outside the Barrier Rings have nothing to do with Paradis but Arin insists that the only way to end the aggression towards Paradis is to wipe out anyone not strictly allied with them. Arin offers to erase Elira's memory with the Origin Core if she cannot live with the guilt of knowing his plan.

Arin is one of several Scouts who journey to Dominion of Marn's mainland to meet with Kiyomi. Although his companions are thrilled by the new experiences beyond the walls, Arin remains stoic, only commenting on things which he recognizes from his father's memories.

Shortly after arriving on the mainland, the Scouts encounter a boy who has been caught pickpocketing and save him from a public lynching. Arin explores Dominion of Marn, agonizing over the knowledge that he will soon be responsible for killing everyone. Remembering Karl Fritz's desire for the Eldian people to die out, Arin admits that such an outcome would lead to less deaths and finally rid the world of Colossi, but he finds himself unable to accept such a fate.

He finds the same would-be pickpocket being beaten by merchants for stealing and realizes from his memories that he is going to save the boy. He attempts to convince himself not to and leave, knowing that he will ultimately kill the boy himself in the World Fracture, but he is unable to stop himself from intervening.

Arin returns the boy to his village, sullenly noting that he was unable to change the future. Before he parts ways with the boy, Arin breaks down and tearfully apologizes to him for the atrocities which he knows he will soon commit.

The boy returns to his tent just as Mira arrives to look for Arin. He brushes off her worried comments about his reckless behavior, instead commenting on the similarities between the boy's family and their experiences when Shiganshina was breached.

Arin asks Mira why she displays so much concern for him and Mira, surprised, claims it is because they are family. They are joined by Jaren, Alren, Conny and Sera and the group is welcomed into the tent by the boy's family, spending the night drinking and carousing.

The soldiers sit in on a hearing between politicians to discuss Eldian mistreatment. When the speaker begins calling for the hatred being shown towards Vestari to be redirected towards the Vestari living on Paradis, Arin quietly leaves the meeting.

In 854, before the end of the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War, Arin cuts off his own leg and gouges out one of his eyes to infiltrate the Dominion of Marn military as an injured Eldian soldier. He returns to Liberio as he watches Rynor and the Warrior candidates from a distance and is sent to the hospital along with the other wounded and traumatized Eldian soldiers. After being knocked to the floor by a terrified soldier, he is helped up by Falo Gryss who points out that his armband is on the wrong arm.

While staying in a mental hospital, Arin spots Falo again and invites the youth to sit with him. He admits to the boy that he is faking his psychological issues, claiming that he does not want to go home. Arin deduces that he has been training to inherit one of the Ennead Colossi. Falo laments that he likely will not score high enough to inherit a Coloss, but Arin argues that Falo deserves to live a long life and not inherit the Curse of Imera. Falo reveals that he wants to inherit the Coloss to spare his friend 's life, prompting Arin to begin pondering his experiences in Dominion of Marn.

Noting the crippled and mentally broken soldiers around him in the hospital, Arin muses to Falo that the people who push themselves into hell see a different hell from the rest of them and that anyone able to throw themselves into war must be able to see something beyond it, be it another hell or another hope, that keeps them motivated to move forward.

Arin continues to receive visits from Falo, who begins delivering letters for him. During this time, Arin learns that Rynor is still alive and is Falo's superior. After Falo leaves, one of the hospital's doctors sits down next to Arin and introduces himself as Jaeger . The two talk about Falo, and Jaeger asks Arin to stop using Falo to run errands, so that there would be no risk of undoing the hard work that had returned peace to the Grice family. Arin asks Jaeger if he has any regrets about his family, causing the doctor to have a mental breakdown.

Just before the start of the Tybur festival, Arin leaves the hospital, runs into Falo, and asks the boy to bring Rynor to him. Arin waits in the basement of a building near the stage on which Willy Tybur is set to perform and Falo brings Rynor to him. Upon Rynor's arrival, he asks Arin why he is in Dominion of Marn, and Arin responds that he is there for the same reason as Rynor; he has no choice. Revealing that he has already slit his hand in preparation to transform if need be, Arin insists that Rynor sit with him to listen to the play.

Arin regenerates his leg and apologizes to Falo for deceiving him, admitting that the letters Falo sent were not to his family but to his allies stationed in Dominion of Marn. Overhearing Willy claim that he is a threat to Dominion of Marn's peace, Arin admits that he is indeed the "bad guy," but argues that the Warriors were also the bad guys when they invaded Outer Ring. Arin asks why Rynor and the others broke the wall and Rynor says that it was so they could capture the Founder and save the world. Rynor asks if Arin has come to kill him and Arin admits that he has seen that there are both good and evil people in Dominion of Marn. He admits that he understands the turmoil Rynor went through, causing the latter to break down and ask that Arin kill him.

Helping Rynor to his feet, Arin says that he now understands that they are the same and declares that he will continue to move forward until he wipes out his enemies. Transforming into the Vanguard Coloss, Arin breaks out of the building, killing many from the debris, and crushes Willy and devours him. He flings himself on top of the military high command in the crowd, killing them. As Arin rampages, the Forge Coloss emerges and he attacks it before it can fully transform. It appears he has the upper hand until a hardened pillar impales him.

The Forge Coloss finishes its formation and constructs a hammer to fight Arin. Arin breaks the pillar trapping his Coloss only to find the ground covered in barbed spikes, preventing him from lifting his feet. Arin hardens his Coloss's hands in an attempt to block the incoming cannon shots as well as the War Hammer's next strike, but fails, and the Vanguard Coloss's head is sheered away. Arin emerges from his Coloss's nape and calls for Mira, who attacks the War Hammer at the same time the rest of the Recon Legion attacks the Marleyan military.

The Forge Coloss survives Mira's attack and fires a pike of its hardened skin towards them. Mira grabs Arin and flees from the Vanguard Coloss's body, barely evading the pike. Arin comes up with a plan to defeat and eat the Forge Coloss, and asks Mira to distract it long enough for him to enact it. As Mira fights the Forge Coloss, Arin recalls that the Coloss's body materialized from its feet rather than the nape and deduces that its human body is located somewhere underground. Transforming back into the Vanguard Coloss, he sees a hole in the street from where a long cable of flesh comes out, attached to the Forge Coloss's foot. Arin reaches in and grabs the crystallized body of Lara Tybur , severing her connection and disabling the Forge Coloss.

As Arin is about to eat Lara Tybur's crystal, the Razor Coloss appears behind him and bites Arin's neck. With Kael's help, Arin smashes the Coloss against the building and tries to take it off his back, but it manages to flee. Because of the distraction Arin fails to notice that the War Hammer has been generating a new Coloss body and he is impaled in a tree-like structure made of hardened skin. Trapped, Arin breaks his hand free and attempts to consume the War Hammer's user once more. When he bites the crystal, he breaks his Coloss's jaw on the hardened surface. Arin exits trapped Coloss form and immediately transforms once again. The Razor Coloss runs across the plaza to assault Arin, and resorts to using its claws to strike him. During the attack, Arin blocks a slash from the Coloss using Lara's crystal. Noticing that the strike successfully produced cracks in the crystal, Arin devises a plan to get to Lara by using the Razor Coloss.

Mira cripples the Razor Coloss's legs in a surprise attack, allowing Arin to grab it and disable it before jamming the crystal into its mouth and using its jaws to break through. He successfully kills Lara, consuming the fluids from her body and giving himself the powers of the Forge Coloss. He moves to finish off the Razor Coloss but is stopped by the arrival of an incomplete Aegis Coloss. Arin punches Rynor, but Rynor manages to rescue the Razor Coloss. Arin emerges from his Coloss and states that he does not have enough energy left to finish off Rynor, leading Mira to ask that they go back home. As they grapple up to the airship, Arin promises Rynor that they will meet again.

Once on the airship Arin is met by Kael, who kicks him and orders that he be restrained. Arin does not resist, but insists that nothing in his letter was wrong. Arin waits in a room with Zair and Yelena aboard the airship when Jaren arrives with Falo and Gara, saying that Gara shot Sera. Hanna berates Arin for having forced the Scouts to accommodate his plans and abusing their trust. Arin is unrepentant, saying that the destruction of the Marleyan military leadership has bought them time. When Conny comes in to announce that Sera has died, Arin asks about her final words. Hearing that it was "meat," Arin breaks into a laugh.

After returning to Paradis, Arin is taken to a cell underground in accordance with his arrest. As he cleans himself up, Arin mutters that Paradis needs to continue fighting.

Hanna arrives and notes that Arin was talking to himself before attempting to make small talk with him. Arin demands to know what Hanna has visited him for and Hanna chastises Arin for inflaming the rest of the world against Paradis with his attack. Arin reveals that he stole the power of the Forge Coloss in Liberio and claims that he can free himself any time. Grabbing Hanna through the bars of his cell, Arin demands to know what Hanna can do to him, and asks if there is any other way for them to act.

At roughly the same time Dhalis Zachary is killed by a bomb in his office, Arin uses his Coloss abilities to escape from his cell. After escaping, Arin meets up with the Jaegerists , a group consisting of Floch and the other recruits who sided with him during his incarceration. Arin declares that they need to locate Zair.

Arin hears the proposal put forth by Commander Pyxis and refuses the offer. He instructs his followers not to negotiate with the Military. He then learns from one of his followers that Hanna and his friends are gathered at a nearby restaurant. Arriving at the restaurant, he instructs Floch to restrain and move them while he speak to Mira, Alren, and Gara. Arin speaks to them in a private room, claiming to want to solve things peacefully. Alren asks if Zair and Yelena have convinced him to join their side, but Arin brushes him off and claims that everything he has done has been his desire. Mira insists he is being controlled but Arin ignores her.

Arin reveals to Alren that he is aware of the latter's frequent trips to visit Anya and suggests he is being unknowingly influenced by the memories Bertholdt had of her. When Mira goes to defend Alren, Arin reveals that he has learned about her family lineage from Zair and claims that the only reason she has stayed by his side is due to her instincts to protect her host. He explains that Ackermanns, once awakened, often suffer unexpected headaches due to their true self fighting the urge to protect their recognized host and claims the true Mira died the day he saved her from her kidnappers. Arin proclaims that he has always hated people like Mira: obedient slaves that do nothing but follow orders.

Alren attacks Arin, but Mira suddenly grabs Alren and slams him into the table. Alren manages to punch him anyway and Arin responds by beating Alren into submission. He orders that they and Gara be taken away, but becomes briefly enraged when Alren calls him a slave.

Arin visits Gara in her holding cell and offers to help her save Falo in exchange for her issuing a call for help to Dominion of Marn to root out any possible spies. Arin is caught by surprise when one of his soldiers aims a pistol at him after stabbing the other in the throat. He is unfazed by Pixa's threat of shooting him, reminding her that her mission is to presumably take him alive. However, Pixa claims that she wishes to join him. Not trusting her intentions, Arin pricks his finger and orders her to prove herself to him and the Jaegerists. When Pixa offers to reveal where her fellow infiltrators are, Arin heals his finger and orders Pixa and Gara to be handcuffed together.

On the roof, he prepares to injure himself again and orders Pixa to reveal her fellow infiltrators. She points at Arin himself, and the Razor Coloss suddenly attacks Arin, taking both of his legs. Transforming, Arin spots a fleet of Marleyan airships approaching their location. Arin trades several blows with the Razor Coloss before it retreats. Arin is perplexed at Dominion of Marn's decision to launch a counterattack so soon after the raid on Liberio.

Despite Yelena pleading with him to flee underground, Arin decides to fight Dominion of Marn on his own. Noticing Rynor transforming into the Aegis Coloss while parachuting from an airship, Arin deduces that was responsible for Dominion of Marn's quick response to the Liberio attack and the two proceed to engage each other.

Arin initially overpowers Rynor, using his superior fighting skills and hardening to break through Rynor's armor plating. Rynor manages to briefly stun Arin and the Razor Coloss attempts to ambush him from behind but Arin uses the Forge Coloss's abilities to repel them.

Arin is shot in the head with a round from Dominion of Marn's anti-Coloss artillery, leaving his motor skills severely impaired. Arin is able to generate more spikes to stop the Razor Coloss's attacks but is shot in the head a second time. Stunned, Arin is unable to dodge Rynor's attack and is skewered by one of the spikes generated from the ground. Despite this, he manages to generate a third set of spikes to impale Rynor once more, and smacks the Razor Coloss out of the air when it tries to attack him from behind. Arin tries to hold off Rynor and manages rip through the latter's jaw but Rynor continues to incapacitate Arin until he is saved by a projectile thrown by Zair from atop the Wall.

With Zair's arrival, Arin begins trying to reach him in hopes of activating the powers of the Origin Core while Zair keeps Dominion of Marn's Warriors at bay. Arin is set upon by the Razor Coloss once again but makes short work of him, repeatedly slamming down on the Coloss's head and nape. However, this distracts him long enough for another anti-Coloss artillery round to be fired into his head again and for Rynor to catch up to him and begin grappling with him. The fighting is momentarily interrupted by the arrival of Colvin and Falo who reveal that Falo has accidentally ingested Zair's spinal fluid.

Zair is undeterred and screams, ordering a transformed Falo to attack Rynor. Falo's Feral Coloss does not prove to be enough to force Rynor to let go of Arin, so Arin exits his Coloss and begins running to Zair on foot. However, before he can reach his brother Arin is decapitated by a blast from an anti-Coloss artillery rifle.

As his head lands in his brother's hand, Arin suddenly finds himself standing before a pillar of light in an unknown land. He is greeted by a chained Zair, who informs Arin that they are standing in the Central Nexus. Zair explains that he was able to bring the two of them into the unknown land by touching Arin's head in the moments before he could die.

Arin notices a young girl approaching them and Zair informs him that the girl is Imera Fritz. Zair encourages him to take control of Imera and activate their plan to euthanize all Vestari, but Arin inquires as to why he is sitting there in chains. Zair explains that the chains are Karl Fritz's vow, keeping anyone with royal blood from acting freely and again asks Arin to begin their plan. However, Arin reveals that he has no intention of following Zair's plan and was only using him to obtain the Founder's power.

Arin approaches Imera and requests he be given control of her power, only to be ignored. To Arin's horror, Zair reveals that during his time waiting for Arin to arrive in the unknown land he discovered a way to erase Karl Fritz's vow, and that Imera will only obey people with royal blood. Zair chains Arin in place, explaining that he has been brainwashed by Grisha. Despite Arin's protests, Zair promises to free him and begins showing him memories from Grisha's life.

Zair systematically takes Arin through different moments in Grisha's life on Paradis, detailing how Grisha covertly used his occupation as a doctor to gain information on the royal family in spite of the risk posed to his new family. Arin is largely unfazed by the memories, only surprised to learn that Grisha located the Reiss chapel years before he actually attacked the family and that he still thought of Zair years after arriving to Paradis. While Zair is reeling at the revelation that their father still cared for him, Arin moves along to the next memory.

As Arin and Zair continue through Grisha's memories, Zair asks why Arin betrayed him if he was not brainwashed by Grisha. Arin responds that he has always believed in stealing the freedom of anyone who opposes his own. Arin and Zair then go to the memory of Grisha writing about how humanity has not perished beyond the walls, and are both caught off guard when Grisha is able to see Zair for a brief moment.

Arin and Zair travel to Grisha's memory of the day he stole the Origin Core from the Reiss family. As he observes the exchange between his father and Frieda Reiss, Arin becomes increasingly agitated by Frieda's claims that the Vestari must take on the world's wrath for the sins of their ancestors. Despite Grisha's declaration that he will steal the Origin Core from the Reiss family. Enraged to see that his father cannot bring himself to carry out his mission, Arin reminds Grisha of his fellow Restorationists and Fay to spur him into attacking the family.

Zair returns the two brothers to the present, despite Arin's objection that they have yet to see Grisha's final memories. Arin reveals that four years prior he had been given a glimpse of his own memories of the future while peering into Grisha's memories and Zair, horrified, orders Imera to sterilize the Marked Lineage. Desperate to stop Zair's plan, Arin is able to escape his chains by severing his thumbs against the shackles and races to try to stop Imera.

He embraces her and begs that she give him her power so that he can end the world, promising that he will not force her to help him. He recognizes that she is neither a slave nor a deity, she is only a human being and she has the right to choose if she wants to remain in the Central Nexus forever or help him end it all. As Zair desperately tries to stop him, Arin asks Imera if she was the one who led him to the Central Nexus, musing that she has been waiting 2,000 years for him to arrive.

In Shiganshina, Arin's body transforms into the Origin Core as Shiganshina's walls begin to crumble. He then uses the Founder's power to telepathically communicate with all of the Marked Lineage. He reveals that the hardening of the Barrier Rings has come undone, and declares that the Wall Colossi will destroy all life outside the island.

Arin and his Colossi arrive at Dominion of Marn's coast to find it guarded by the Global Allied Fleet. However, the fleet proves to be ineffective against Arin's Colossal Colossi and is immediately wiped out. The land artillery on Dominion of Marn is also unsuccessful in stopping the advancing Colossi, causing the soldiers to retreat to higher ground. As his Colossi begin the destruction of Dominion of Marn, Arin remembers the death of his mother and reiterates his desire to destroy every last one of his enemies in the world.

While he is advancing, Arin summons each of his friends and former enemies to speak with them in The Lattice individually. He reveals to each of them his true intentions, to become a threat to the entire world so that they can kill him and earn the favor of the nations outside of Paradis. He also reveals that his death will permanently destroy the Coloss Manifestation, causing all Vestari trapped as Pure Colossi, including Conny's mother, to return to their human forms.

When Arin speaks with Alren he tries to apologize for the way he treated him at Niccolo's restaurant, but Alren says that he should be more worried about apologizing to Mira. Arin asks Alren to follow him.

Arin takes Alren to a volcano to show him the "liquid fire" that he read about as a child, lava. Arin reveals to Alren that he has come to understand that the reason Imera Fritz remained servile to the royal family even centuries after her original master's death is because she genuinely loved him, despite the abuses she suffered by him. Although he does not understand the woman fully, he knows that it was Mira who managed to free her from her servitude. Arin claims to not know why Mira is important to Imera, only that every action he has taken since he received his future memories has been done in the service of Mira freeing Imera.

As he reflects on everything he has done, Arin confesses to Alren that he can no longer think clearly, as the combination of past and future memories in his head have rendered him unable to distinguish what is past, present, and future. His warped perspective of time has caused him to take actions to ensure history should play out the way he remembers it, even using his powers to influence time in the past and send Dina Fritz's Coloss away from Bertholdt, which lead her to eat his mother.

Alren takes Arin to see the ocean and asks him if he believes Mira can move on from him. Arin claims he does not know and Alren punches him, enraged at the way he has been treating Mira. Alren begins ridiculing Arin, joking that Mira will forget about him quickly, and Arin finally breaks down and admits that he does not want Mira to love anyone but him. After composing himself, Arin confesses that he does not want to die. Alren tries to convince him that he can keep living, but Arin reminds him that the world will never forgive what he has done.

As a ruined landscape of trampled corpses appears before them, Arin reveals that he will succeed in wiping out 80% of the world's population before being stopped. The nations will not be able to launch any meaningful counterattacks for the foreseeable future. Alren tries to get Arin to understand that he has not actually killed these people yet, so he can still make a choice, but Arin explains that no matter how hard he tried, everything always occurred exactly as he saw in his memories of the future. Alren refuses to accept this. Unmoved, Arin says he always wanted to level everything like this. He thought he was doing this to protect those he cared about, but people like Sera Breen and Hanna Vey died because of him, and he kept setting his friends up for lethal confrontations with Floch Forster.

As he looks at bits of hair and gore he picked out of the blood water, Arin thinks he finally knows why everything turned out this way, and it is because he is an idiot who obtained an immense power. Alren picks something out of the blood water and says he understands wanting to erase some people out of the world. Arin calls him a liar, but undeterred, Alren says he was the one who put the idea of a free world in Arin's head.

The object Alren picked up was the seashell from when they first saw the sea. He hands it to Arin and thanks him for showing him what was beyond the Barrier Rings. He emphasizes that the two of them are responsible, so they will always be together in hell. Arin is touched that their friendship remains unbroken, but tells Alren that he will erase the memory of this conversation until after everything is over.

As he approaches Fort Salta Arin summons Mira, Alren, Jaren, Conny, Kael, Rynor, and Pixa into the The Lattice to speak to them. His former comrades beg him to stop the World Fracture, but Arin tells them that he has no intention of stopping. He explains that he will take all of the world's freedom so he can achieve his own, but he promises not to deny the alliance's freedom to thwart his plans.

However, Arin reinforces his intent to destroy the world, refusing to negotiate on any terms and stating that the only thing to stop his advance would be his death.

Marleyan airships are launched from Fort Salta in an attempt to stop Arin's advance and begin dropping bombs on his Coloss. In response, Arin dispatches the Primal Coloss to shoot them down. Arin and the Beast make quick work of the airships, but his comrades arrive and manage to evade the Primal Coloss's projectiles long enough to reach him and engage him directly.

As his friends attempt to reach his nape to destroy it, Arin and Imera begin generating more Colossi on his back to defend him. Despite this, the soldiers eventually manage to reach Arin's nape and blow it up, severing his Coloss's head from its body. Alren then transforms atop his Coloss in an attempt to kill him.

This proves to be ineffective, and Arin's head transforms again into a new Colossal form to continue its march. He is met by Alren, who chooses to engage him in a hand-to-hand fight with his Cataclysm Coloss form. As Mira is approaching Arin to attack him, he brings her to a The Lattice life in which they run away together while in Dominion of Marn and live out the rest of their lives together in peace and isolation. After spending some time together in that life, Arin asks Mira to forget him after his death.

In the real world, Alren manages to immobilize Arin long enough for Mira to enter his Coloss's mouth and kill him by severing his head from the spine, before kissing him goodbye.

Following his death, Mira and Alren decide to bury Arin's head at the foot of the tree he liked to nap under outside of Shiganshina District, and a small grave is made there for Arin, which Mira continues to visit years later.

In the year 844, Arin accompanies his father, Dr. Jaeger , to the Ackermanns during a medical visit. He is introduced to Mira and the two begin wandering the forest nearby. Arin tells Mira that he heard her mother is pregnant, to which she confirms and says her mother believes it to be a boy. Arin remarks that if the child is a boy, he hopes that he will become a soldier. He reveals to Mira his dream of joining the Recon Legion and exploring the outside world.

Suddenly, the two hear howling in the distance. Mira becomes worried, saying that her father does not want her going deep into the forest, but Arin runs ahead on his own to investigate, prompting Mira to follow him. The two come across the ruins of a campsite overrun by rabid dogs that have killed a trio of travelers. The dogs spot Arin and Mira, then slowly approach them, but suddenly turn their tracks and leave. The two return home and inform their parents of the location of the corpses they saw.

Over the course of Dr. Jaeger's visits, Arin continues playing with Mira and the two quickly become friends. He tells her of his friend, Alren , who is intelligent and reads a lot of books, and is also the one who told him about the outside world. Arin mentions that they will one day explore the outside world together. During the next visit, he arrives with many injuries to his face. Arin talks to Mira about the outside world and describes the ocean as being a large amount of salt water that is big enough to the point merchants could never sell all of its salt.

He continues that the outside world also has fiery water, lands of ice, and land all covered in sand. Mentioning that the people who fought him are cowards who are content with living ignorant within the Barrier Rings, Arin reiterates his dream of joining the Recon Legion to see the outside world.

When Mira is sent to Shiganshina District , Arin meets her upon arriving. Hearing the bell that signals the return of the Recon Legion from an exterior scouting mission, Arin eagerly heads to see the Scouts, which return in shambles.

In front of them, two civilians comment on the scene, saying their taxes are being wasted on feeding the Colossi. Arin strikes one of them in anger, and the man takes Arin into a nearby alley. The man begins to mercilessly beat Arin as Mira watches in shock. That night, Arin is taken to his home and his wounds are treated.

Arin stops going to Mira's house for sometime, and when the Ackermanns move into Shiganshina to be closer to Dr. Jaeger, Mira questions Arin on why he stopped visiting her. Arin tells her that the Recon Legion has been disbanded for the lack of results, and the gate leading to the outside of the Wall has been sealed off.

Mira is relieved that Arin will not be able to leave the Barrier Rings, but he adds that he will be leaving with Alren using a hot air balloon they were building, and it is why he could not visit her. Mira asks Arin to take her with him, and he responds by wrapping his scarf around her and mentioning a path to a nearby forest, telling her that she can return it to him there in three days. At the time of their leaving, the balloon fails to gain enough altitude and Arin pushes Alren to safety, before it crashed into the Wall.

Originally, Arin's only noteworthy trait was his natural physical strength, which stemmed from having to defend his friend Alren from bullies who were bigger and stronger. As he grew and joined the 104th squad, he trained extensively in hand-to-hand combat. While hand-to-hand fighting would appear useless due to the massive physical differences between humans and Colossi, these skills gave Arin a powerful edge when fighting other Colossi in his own Coloss form.

At first, it is shown that Arin was not very skilled with the ODM gear . During the initial balancing tests, he kept tripping and smacking his head on the floor. People mocked him for this. Arin pleaded for help from everyone but the only advice they could give Arin was that he needed to clear his mind and focus. On his last attempt, Arin did just that and stayed upright for a short period of time before tipping over and hitting his head. Seeing this, the commandant, Keith Sadies told Thomas Wagner to swap equipment with Arin and for Arin to try again. Arin did so and balanced with ease. The commandant then told Arin that his equipment was damaged and that it was a miracle that he managed to stay upright at all.

Arin was not shown using the gear as much as other members of the Recon Legion, but he was able to hold his own against the Cataclysm Coloss for a short period of time when it reappeared for the first time in five years. He was also capable of killing a Coloss on his own. His most significant use of the ODM gear was shown during the Battle of Shiganshina, where he was able to use it to cut Bertholdt Hoover out of the Cataclysm Coloss's nape while he was distracted by his hardened Coloss form, despite being clearly exhausted.

After the fall of Outer Ring, Grisha found Arin in a refugee camp and brought him into a nearby forest. After giving him the key to the basement, Grisha injected Arin with a Coloss injection , which transformed him into a Feral Coloss with short rugged hair and a stocky body. This Coloss ate Grisha, giving Arin the powers of the Origin Core and Vanguard Coloss .

During the first Battle of Trost, Arin was swallowed whole by a Coloss, and inside the stomach-like cavity saw other fellow recruits lying dead/dying, one wanting her mother before sinking in stomach acid. This sight combined with intense feelings of desperation and his drive to exterminate all Colossi awoke his ability to transform into a Coloss. In this form, he was a 15-meter-tall Coloss, with shoulder-length black hair, pointed ears, a long nose, and a gaping, skeleton-like maw lacking lips. Unlike most other Colossi, Arin's Coloss form was considerably more muscular and defined; making him much stronger than even similar-sized Colossi while his intelligence and military training, allowed him to out-maneuver and dispatch entire groups of Colossi with ease. A transformation took a heavy toll on Arin's body and required large amounts of stamina. As a result, he had displayed several symptoms when he over-exerts himself such as a nosebleed, pale skin, and labored breathing. In some cases, Arin was rendered unconscious for a short period of time after a Coloss transformation.

Initially, Arin had no control over his actions when he first transformed into a Coloss and was unable to remember any actions that occurred during the first Battle of Trost. He was in a “dream-like state” and failed to remember how to transform in the first place. However, Arin recalled fragmented memories of his father by seeing the key to the basement of his old home and is able to successfully transform to protect Alren and Mira from certain death. It has been shown that with more transformations, Arin retained more of his intelligence, being able to form rational thoughts. At the beginning, during the second Battle of Trost, Arin in his Coloss form attacked Mira but ultimately plugged the hole in Trost's gate after Alren forced him to wake up. His Coloss form, combined with his growing experience and his hand-to-hand combat skills, allowed him to kill over 20 Colossi in his first transformation.

Arin, like all others with the power of the Colossi, had to physically harm himself in order to transform into his Coloss form. However, lack of a determined goal and resolution for it inhibited his ability to transform as shown when he could not transform at first to confront Anya Levar. Within Coloss transformations, he had displayed the ability to partially transform, as shown when he protected Mira and Alren from a cannonball by forming the upper torso skeleton, complete with arms and a skull with some muscle tissue. From his suppressed memories, Arin believed that the full truth of his Coloss powers, as well as a way to defeat the Colossi once and for all, was located in the basement beneath the ruins of his family home.

Named the "Central Nexus" by Bertholdt Hoover and Rynor Feld , the Origin Core was given to Arin when his father Grisha stole it from the Reiss family . It possessed the power to control Pure Colossi. However, this ability could only be used while Arin was in contact with a Coloss of royal blood .

Arin first used this ability entirely by accident by punching the Smiling Coloss, who was in fact a royal-blooded human turned Coloss. This commanded the nearby Colossi to viciously attack and consume the Smiling Coloss, as well as attacking Rynor and Bertholdt. While it was shown that others with the power of the Colossi can sense the activation of his power, it is unknown whether it was possible to use it to influence or control other human-controlled Colossi.

Possession of the Origin Core was the reason many groups have expressed an interest in Arin, being sought after by Dominion of Marn 's Warriors , and Rod Reiss , the former patriarch of the Reiss family.

Four years after his first, accidental use of it, Arin was finally able to unlock the full capabilities of the Origin Core after convincing the soul of Imera Fritz to lend him her power, giving him access to all of the Founder's powers and turning him into the "Doomsday Coloss". With the full power of the Founder, Arin was able to control all of the Wall Colossi, create a unique Coloss body that towered over all of them, and could telepathically communicate with all of the Marked Lineage.

Arin obtained the power of the Forge Coloss during the Raid on Liberio by devouring Lara Tybur . He was capable of using the War Hammer's abilities to create numerous weapons and structures.