The Burden Coloss ( 車力の巨人 Shariki no Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi with a quadrupedal form possessing devastating speed and endurance.

The Burden Coloss possessed a level of endurance greater than that of the other members of the Ennead Colossi , allowing for the inheritor to partake in long missions without the need for rest. Its absorption resistance allowed it to maintain its Coloss form for long periods of time, making it an ideal candidate for a variety of tactics, including the clearing of trenches and long-term operations into enemy territory. Likewise, Pixa claims that the Burden Coloss's power allowed her to perform hundreds of consecutive transformations before she started to feel fatigued. On the downside, the Burden Coloss had much lower defenses than the other Ennead Colossi and was more likely to be taken down by a critical or severe blow.

The Burden Coloss stood out as unusual among the Ennead Colossi for its quadrupedal form, which may have been the source of its "Burden Coloss" name. As a side-effect to inheriting the Burden Coloss and staying in its form for extended periods of time, the inheritor was liable to forget how to walk normally and would instead crawl like the Burden Coloss. Pixa was often seen crawling similarly to the Burden Coloss when in the presence of few people, and also used crutches when getting around.

In addition to its combat abilities, the Burden Coloss was often used to carry supplies or troops during times of conflict. Examples of this include during the course of the Great Coloss War , as well as the Battle of Shiganshina District and the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War thousands of years later. In addition, the Burden Coloss was also used as a mobile gunnery platform, being able to wear harnesses that could hold various weapons; this included several machine gun turrets and much larger weapons such as an anti-Coloss artillery cannon.

The Burden Coloss also possessed great speed, similar to the Razor Coloss , which was used during the Battle of Shiganshina to retrieve a defeated Zair Kael and Rynor Feld while also catching Kael Acken and Hanna , two of the Barrier Rings ' most talented soldiers, off guard.

The Burden Coloss was one of the few Colossi capable of intelligible speech.

The Burden Coloss, like all the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . In the 1,700 years following her death, the Burden Coloss was held in the possession of one or several of the warring Eldian houses subservient to the Origin Core . After these seventeen centuries when Karl Fritz , the 145th king of the Fritz family , abandoned the conflicts of Eldia and relocated to Isle of Vestara , the Burden Coloss was taken by the nation of Dominion of Marn during the Great Coloss War .

Around the year 843 , Pixa Fend was chosen to inherit the power of the Burden Coloss. She would later make use of her Coloss form during a war between Dominion of Marn and an enemy nation, using her Burden Coloss to drop off Bertholdt Hoover at a site for transformation.

When the time came for the Isle of Vestara Operation , Pixa's Burden Coloss stayed behind in Dominion of Marn.

Five years into the mission to reclaim the Origin Core , Pixa 's Cart journeys to Isle of Vestara with Zair Kael and a contingent of Marleyan soldiers, using her Coloss to carry supplies for them. She is present as Zair and the soldiers transform the inhabitants of a small village into Colossi .

The Burden Coloss first appears during the Recon Legion 's expedition to Shiganshina District in the year 850 . During the night before the arrival of the Recon Legion, Pixa's Burden Coloss keeps watch for Scouts' movement in the desolate regions of Outer Ring south of Trost District . Upon seeing the advancing soldiers, the Burden Coloss returns to the ruins of Shiganshina and informs fellow Warriors Zair , Rynor , and Bertholdt of their approach.

Later that day, Pixa's Burden Coloss remains at the side of Zair's Primal Coloss , serving as a cargo mule of sorts for the Warriors' various supplies. Orwin Hale notices its presence and correctly deduces by the luggage on its back that this Coloss was not among the recently transformed Pure Colossi, and it must be instead an Intelligent Coloss and the Warriors' scout. Bertholdt is kept hidden in a barrel atop the Burden Coloss's back as a plan B against the Recon Legion, and upon Rynor's defeat at the hands of the Scouts' Thunder Spears , Bertholdt is removed from the Burden Coloss and thrown by the Primal Coloss into the city. Shortly afterward, Pixa's Burden Coloss fetches nearby boulders for the Primal Coloss to use against the Scouts.

The Scouts choose to engage in a suicidal charge against the Primal Coloss in order to buy time for Captain Kael to move in for a counterattack. As Zair decimates the Scouts, he is quickly defeated by Kael who catches him unawares. Before Zair can be captured by Kael, the Burden Coloss comes to Zair's rescue and carries his dismembered human form away.

Sitting atop the Burden Coloss's back, Zair guides Pixa into Shiganshina to rescue Rynor and Bertholdt. They find Bertholdt incapacitated and captured by Arin Kael but after seeing Kael atop the Wall, they leave him for dead. Searching elsewhere in the district, the Burden Coloss rescues Rynor from capture before climbing atop Outer Ring where the Warriors are safe.

Four years later, Pixa's Burden Coloss is present at the battle of Fort Slava during the climax of the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War , but the use of her Burden Coloss is prohibited under orders from Commander Magath , who could not risk losing a Coloss to the Mid-East Allied Forces ' anti-Coloss artillery . However, once cadet Gara Feld destroys the armored train carrying the artillery using explosives, Pixa is able to join the battle alongside Porko Galen 's Razor Coloss . The Burden Coloss appears as an armored tank equipped with fully functional battle armor with four machine gun turrets manned by Marleyan soldiers on the Burden Coloss's back, Pixa begins the assault on the trenches of the Allies and destroys their bunkers, eliminating the outer defenses of Fort Slava alonside Galliard's Razor Coloss.

During the Recon Legion 's attack on Liberio , Pixa orders the Panzer squad to prepare the Burden Coloss's machine guns and uses them to fend off the attackers. The machine gun proves effective against the Scouts' ODM maneuvers and the crew is able to save the Razor Coloss from being finished off. However, one of the Panzer crew is sniped by Sera Breen and the rest are killed by Thunder Spears. Badly injured, the Burden Coloss falls to the ground, where Pixa is rescued by Falo Gryss , Gara, and other Marleyan soldiers.

About one month after the Raid on Liberio , Pixa makes use of her Coloss to sneak into the Barrier Rings, eventually infiltrating the Jaegerists once inside. In Shiganshina District, Pixa comes into contact with Arin Kael, luring him into an ambush by the Razor Coloss. Though the initial sneak attack fails, Pixa is freed from her shackle which had been binding her to Gara, allowing her to transform into the Burden Coloss.

After Gara climbs into the Burden Coloss's mouth, it runs away to meet with General Magath and his soldiers. The Burden Coloss fills in Magath on the situation's details, surmising that the Origin Core's powers will be activated once Zair and Arin come into contact. Once Pixa finishes outfitting her Coloss with an anti-Coloss artillery cannon, Magath climbs inside, before the Burden Coloss and the soldiers manning its cannon scale Outer Ring. As the Jaw and Aegis Coloss struggle against Arin's Coloss, the Burden Coloss fires a round into its head, compromising Arin's mobile abilities. After reloading, they shoot Arin through the head again, though the arrival of the Primal Coloss ruins the Warriors' opportunity to finish him off.

After destroying the Marleyan airships, Zair attacks the Burden Coloss by throwing rubble from the Wall. Avoiding engaging Zair in a firefight, the Burden Coloss takes cover by clinging to the side of the Wall, but is soon forced to flee across it due to a group of pursuing Jaegerists. As the Cart's pursuers are distracted maneuvering into a pincer, Pixa uses the opportunity to exit her Coloss and feign defeat. While Zair and the pursuers are confused, General Magath shoots the Primal Coloss through the nape, sending it plummeting down the Wall.

Soon afterwards, Pixa returns to Coloss form and reequips the anti-Coloss artillery cannon. They fire another round into Arin's Coloss's head, and readjust to aim at the Beast, who had survived the earlier attack. The pursuing Jaegerists run interference, forcing Pixa to fend them off. After killing all but one of them, the Burden Coloss fires on Zair again, seemingly finishing him off. Before they can fire at Arin, a soldier knocks off the artillery with a Thunder Spear , and another soldier then kills the last members of the crew defending her. Pixa proclaims it is over, before going to attack her assailants, who begin grappling towards her.

Before the Burden Coloss can engage its two assailants, Outer Ring begins to crack underfoot, signifying the beginning of the World Fracture .

The Burden Coloss and Magath retreat from Shiganshina's remains and observe Dominion of Marn's airships leaving the island. While discussing the situation, the two are interrupted by an approaching soldier . Pixa prepares to attack but stops when the soldier insists that they and their partner are harmless. After finding their goals align, Pixa and Magath agree to join forces with the two. In order to gather companions, the Burden Coloss feigns an attack on the Jaegerists' headquarters, and uses the chaos to abduct Jaren Kirel, Onyankopon , and Yelena . After shaking off any pursuers, Pixa rendezvous with her comrades, and later joins with the other members of the makeshift alliance.

The following day, the Burden Coloss is sent to scout Paradis's docks to see if it will be safe for the group to follow Arin. Pixa returns from her mission to reveal that the Jaegerists have occupied the docks in anticipation of retaliation against Arin.

During the ensuing conflict, it is decided to take the flying boat to Odiha . The Burden Coloss alongside its passengers then evacuate to the Azumabito 's ship. As the Armored and Mimic Coloss are overrun, Falo Gryss rushes into the battle transforming into the Razor Coloss. The Colossi along with the Recon Legion are able to defeat the Jaegerists but Falo quickly loses control of his Coloss and attacks his allies. The Burden Coloss's nape is almost crushed with Pixa inside. However, the Burden Coloss is able to restrain the Razor Coloss long enough for Magath to remove Falo from his Coloss.

As the flying boat reaches Arin it comes under fire from the Primal Coloss . As the rest of the group jump from the boat, Pixa grabs the explosives and drags them out of the boat with her. Transforming midair, Pixa transports the explosives in her Coloss's mouth while her comrades engage the Primal Coloss. They make quick work of the Beast, but Zair is not found in its nape. Pixa and the group retreat to give Alren room to transform and uncover Zair's location with the blast, but he is overtaken by an army of Colossi which begins generating atop Arin's Coloss. Kael devises a plan to save him, but Pixa reveals that the Colossi they are facing are former inheritors of the Ennead Colossi. Realizing that Arin can generate an infinite number of Colossi, Pixa tries to rush to his nape on her own and use the explosives to kill him. She manages to set the explosives around his nape, but before she can set them off, her Coloss gets impaled by Lara Tybur 's Forge Coloss .

Exiting her Coloss, Pixa quickly transforms again and kills the Forge Coloss. She uses her Coloss to kill nearby Colossi attacking Jaren, before ejecting from her Coloss as it is torn apart. Transforming once more in midair, Pixa explains to Jaren that the Burden Coloss's endurance effectively allows her to transform as many times as she wants, essentially allowing her endless opportunities to fight the Colossi spawning around them.

Pixa's regeneration abilities reach their limit and leave her unable to heal her injuries, requiring Jaren to return and save her. After she and Jaren are saved by the intervention of Porko and Marcel Galliard's Jaw Colossi, Pixa transforms again and joins her resurrected comrades in holding off the remaining hostile Colossi.

After the Vestari at Fort Salta are transformed into Colossi, Pixa is given the task of helping Rynor prevent the source from returning to Arin while Mira and Kael engage Arin directly with Alren. She attacks the source directly, but is quickly overwhelmed by the army of pure Colossi along with Rynor and Anya.

After Arin's death, the Cart Coloss Manifestation ceased to exist along with the power of the Colossi .