This article is about one of the Ennead Colossi . For the Abnormals that were used to create the Barrier Rings , see Wall Coloss (Anime) .

The Cataclysm Coloss ( 超大型巨人 Chō ōgata Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi and served as the primary antagonist of the first three seasons of Citadel of the Colossi series. It was notable for its incredible size and its ability to control both the steam emitted by its Coloss body and the amount of energy released during its transformations.

Although all Colossi generated enormous amounts of heat and energy during transformation , the users of the Cataclysm Coloss could control the energy they produced to create various effects. For instance, when Bertholdt Hoover attacked Trost District his transformation only causes a wind blast that knocked some cadets over the Wall. However, during the battle of Shiganshina District , Bertholdt released a much larger explosion, creating a mushroom cloud of dust and rubble, ravaging part of the city, and instantly killing a great number of Recon Legion soldiers. Alren Vos also used this ability to wipe out most of, if not all, of the Marleyan naval fleet present at the Raid on Liberio in a tremendous explosion, sending a massive wave of energy inland and completely destroying the port.

Like its name suggests, the Cataclysm Coloss was known for its incredible size, standing at a previously unseen 60 meters and being tall enough to peer over the top of the Barrier Rings . It also possessed incredible physical strength, able to destroy the outer gate of Outer Ring with a single kick, launch entire houses in the air, and send Arin 's Vanguard Coloss flying from the ground to the top of Outer Ring. Alren also used the Cataclysm Coloss's immense strength and size to ensure the destruction of the Marleyan ships and naval port by stepping on them after his transformation.

The unique ability possessed by the Cataclysm Coloss appears to have been significant control over the amounts of steam emitted by its Coloss body. In normal circumstances, Colossi emitted steam from wounds while regenerating, and their bodies would evaporate completely into steam after receiving a killing blow. However, the Cataclysm Coloss was capable of emitting great amounts of steam at will. This power could be used for a variety of purposes. By emitting great amounts of steam at once, the pressure and force of the steam would burn and repel any individual in close proximity to the Cataclysm Coloss that were not fixed in place; in addition, if anyone was affixed to it, they would be at the Coloss's mercy and constantly roasted by the heat.

However, frequent or constant usage of this ability rendered the Coloss's muscles immobile. Prolonged use of this ability also took a toll on the Coloss, decreasing its muscle mass gradually until only the skeletal structure remained. In some cases when it was necessary, the Cataclysm Coloss was capable of evaporating its entire body at once, disappearing instantly. This did put the user in a position of great vulnerability, with no way of preventing a fall from a great height where the Coloss form once was. However, this disadvantage could be alleviated if the user was wearing ODM gear .

The Cataclysm Coloss, like all the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . In the 1,800 years following her death, the Cataclysm Coloss was held in the possession of one or several of the warring Eldian houses subservient to the Origin Core . After these seventeen centuries when Karl Fritz , the 145th King of the Fritz family , abandoned the conflicts of Eldia and relocated to Isle of Vestara , the Cataclysm Coloss was taken by the nation of Dominion of Marn during the Great Coloss War .

On the year 843 , Bertholdt Hoover was chosen to inherit the power of the Cataclysm Coloss. He would later make use of his Coloss form in a war between Dominion of Marn and an enemy nation, using his Cataclysm Coloss to destroy a city containing enemy troops in a sneak attack after the Burden Coloss placed him in position.

In the year 845, the nation of Dominion of Marn sent out Bertholdt, Rynor Feld , Anya Levar , and Marcel Galliard across the sea to Isle of Vestara as the start of the Isle of Vestara Operation .

The Cataclysm Coloss makes its first appearance outside Outer Ring when Bertholdt transformed outside the southern gate, terrorizing the population of Shiganshina and kicking a hole in the southern gate. Its actions allow the Pure Colossi wandering outside to enter Shiganshina, where they begin to feast on its many inhabitants, including Carla Jaeger . Bertholdt joined his fellow surviving Warriors in entering the walled territory during the chaos.

The Cataclysm Coloss reappears five years later in the year 850 after the fall of Outer Ring , breaching Middle Ring after Bertholdt transforms outside the south gate of Trost District so that the Colossi can once again devour the humans inside. Before he can escape, his Cataclysm Coloss is confronted by Arin Kael seeking vengeance. Arin attempts to strike at the Cataclysm Coloss's nape, but Bertholdt makes use of his steam emission control and prevents Arin from getting close. As Arin fights against Bertholdt's steam and comes in for the killing blow, the Cataclysm Coloss vanishes instantaneously. As Arin attempts to comprehend the situation, Bertholdt escapes under the cover of his Coloss's steam using his omni-directional mobility gear . This attack prompts the Citadel Guard to enact the Cataclysm Coloss contingency plan for Trost District .

Due to the discovery of Arin's possession of the Vanguard Coloss , the Warriors postpone their plan to destroy the Barrier Rings and instead focus on capturing him, whom they believe also possesses the Origin Core . When Rynor , in a moment of exhaustion and desperation, reveals himself to be the Aegis Coloss and exposes Bertholdt as the Cataclysm Coloss, the two transform into their Coloss forms and battle against the Recon Legion .

As Rynor's Aegis Coloss battles Arin's Coloss, Bertholdt fights against the Scouts with a partially transformed Cataclysm Coloss. When the soldiers led by Hanna Vey are ready to land a killing blow, Bertholdt once more uses his steam emission control to keep them all at a distance, and their ODM gear is unable to reach him in the continuous gusts of wind. Bertholdt's Colossal remains in this state of emission for a short time until Rynor faces imminent defeat in his struggle against Arin and calls for help. Hearing Rynor's signal, Bertholdt falls to the ground below. This causes a destructive explosion below, with the Cataclysm Coloss evaporating into a gush of steam. Bertholdt leaves his Coloss and joins up with Rynor, who had managed to capture Arin and Imera in the chaos.

The Warriors fail in capturing Arin and later flee to the ruins of Shiganshina District. For some months, Bertholdt presumably does not use his Cataclysm Coloss until the battle of Shiganshina District , where he prepares to transform into his Coloss above the district in order to destroy the city. However, his plan is stopped shortly after seeing Rynor alive and in peril, and he transforms at a later time after speaking with his former comrades. The blast from his transformation engulfs nearly all of the Scouts within Shiganshina and levels the central portion of the district, creating a mushroom cloud.

As the Cataclysm Coloss, Bertholdt begins setting fire to the houses of Shiganshina with his Coloss's heat and sends the structures soaring through the air, bringing great devastation to the town. Arin attempts to attack the Colossal, but his attempt is short-lived when he is kicked to the top of Outer Ring. Squad Kael attempts to attack Bertholdt with their Thunder Spears , but the Colossal's steam emission keeps them away. However, at this time Alren Vos notices the loss of muscle mass brought on by each steam blast and formulates a plan to defeat Bertholdt.

Alren brings Arin back into consciousness and informs him of his plan to defeat Bertholdt. Knowing his ODM gear will not stay attached to the Colossal's evaporating flesh, Alren grapples to the teeth of the Coloss as Arin collapses to the ground below.

Wanting to kill Alren quickly, Bertholdt emits a huge amount of burning steam at Alren, scorching him alive until he can no longer remain grappled to his Coloss. Alren collapses to the ground below, and Bertholdt turns his attention to Arin. He notices too late that Arin's Coloss on the ground below is in fact merely its hardened shell, and in the moment of vulnerability, Arin, in his human form, strikes at the Cataclysm Coloss, pulling Bertholdt from the nape as the Cataclysm Coloss collapses in defeat.

On the rooftops of Shiganshina, the surviving members of the Recon Legion are left with the choice of using a Coloss injection in their possession to save either Alren or Commander Orwin Hale from the brink of death. The choice is left to Captain Kael , and after some hesitation, he chooses to save Alren's life. As a Feral Coloss, Alren grabs Bertholdt as he comes back into consciousness and begs for his life. His cries go unheard, and Bertholdt is eaten alive by Alren's Coloss, which inherits the Cataclysm Coloss power.

Through the years 851 to 854, the nation of Dominion of Marn sent a total of 32 scouting ships to Isle of Vestara , all of which ended up missing. The Cataclysm Coloss, along with the Vanguard Coloss, assists in this by capturing ships by transforming near or directly above them and forcing their crews to jump overboard, after they had been lured into close proximity by Yelena and Onyankopon .

During the Raid on Liberio , Alren Vos awaits at the shore of Dominion of Marn in a fishing boat. As Dominion of Marn's naval forces rally to provide reinforcements to the city's internment zone who are taking heavy losses due to the Recon Legion's attacks, they quickly spot Alren and order him back to shore, only to realize his true identity when he removes his hood. He stares at them and then transforms into his Cataclysm Coloss. The blast destroys the Marleyan warships and sends devastating explosive energy surging inland into the streets of Liberio.

After destroying the harbor, the Cataclysm Coloss steps on all the ships to ensure that they have been completely destroyed. Alren then emerges from the Coloss's nape and looks down at the carnage caused by the transformation, and flies up using his anti-personnel omni-directional mobility gear to a nearby Recon Legion airship.

Having been saved from the okapi-shaped Coloss, Alren transforms into the Cataclysm Coloss in an attempt to destroy Arin's Origin Core 's body using his explosive transformation ability. After doing this, the Cataclysm Coloss emerges from the newly formed crater and prepares to head for the nearby Fort Salta . Arin generates a new body bearing similarity to the Cataclysm Coloss, however, and the two Colossi engage each other in hand-to-hand combat. Arin gains the upper hand, but Alren manages to hold Arin's Coloss in place, giving Mira Acken the opportunity to head inside the Coloss's mouth and sever Arin's exposed head.

After Arin's death, the Cataclysm Coloss power ceased to exist along with the power of the Colossi .