The Coloss Manifestation ( 巨人の力 Kyojin no Chikara , also translated as Coloss powers ) was the ability which allowed for Marked Lineage to transform into intelligent Colossi known as the Ennead Colossi . Unlike Pure Colossi , those with the Coloss Manifestation were able to control their form and retain their human intelligence. If a Feral Coloss gained the power of the Colossi, that Coloss would return to being a human. It was often noted that these Colossi were far more powerful than regular Colossi and oftentimes displayed appearances and abilities unique to only them. After Imera 's decision to relinquish her power, all the surviving Colossi collectively lost their power and reverted back to normal humans.

In order to transform, a human with the Coloss ability had to suffer an injury that drew blood (often self-inflicted) while having a solid goal or belief in mind at the moment of injury. However, being injured by another person was also sufficient. Once the transformation was initiated, a burst of energy was released (usually a bolt of lightning or an explosion), followed by the generation of the Coloss body and a release of hot steam. After transformation, the human body rested within the nape of the Coloss's neck, the center of control. The human body was also merged with the Coloss's flesh inside to varying extents, most frequently on the area of the cheeks below the eyes or behind the neck, rendering them immobile.

If an Intelligent Coloss was pushed to its limit, the human would emerge from the nape of its neck, sometimes in a semi-conscious or entirely unconscious state. But if the Coloss was not exhausted, then its human form could emerge from the Coloss form in full consciousness. In some cases, a human was able to partially emerge from their Coloss body without fully leaving the nape.

After the Coloss Manifestation was used, the area around the emerging human's eyes was temporarily marked by dark lines. The design of the marks appeared to vary on some cases depending on which Coloss the human was in possession of, as shown by humans who held the power of the Cataclysm Coloss having more striking marks on their face than the others, resembling the Coloss in their possession, while in the case of the Burden Coloss , lines would appear on the cheeks. The amount of time the human possessed these marks appeared to depend on how long, skilled, or overworked they had used their Coloss forms, ranging from several minutes to several hours. It was also possible for an inheritor to become more skilled with their Coloss transformation, allowing them to transform more than once in a short time span. This was best shown by Arin Kael , who initially had trouble transforming more than once without becoming exhausted and almost absorbed by his Coloss form. By the time of the Raid on Liberio , and his battle with the Forge Coloss , Arin's endurance with his transformations had increased to the point that he could transform three times in succession before he was exhausted, something that shocked Porko Galen . Even after leaving his Coloss for the third time, Arin showed no physical signs of his exhaustion, simply commenting that he couldn't transform again.

The ability to transform into a Coloss was hindered by injuries inflicted on the human body. A human could transform into a Coloss with injuries as severe as a missing limb, but only if a previous transformation had not occurred recently. If a human emerged from their Coloss form and received a severe injury, this person could not transform into a Coloss again until said injuries had fully healed.

Those with the power of the Colossi appeared to be resistant to the normal absorption that created mindless Pure Colossi. However, this did not mean that they were immune to it. In the case of Arin Kael, it has been shown that repeated transformations in a short period of time led to decreased control over the Coloss form, as well as diminished Coloss size and power. As such, it seems that there was a limitation on how long a human could remain in a transformed Coloss state before risking absorption. The length of time spent in a controllable transformed Coloss depended on how skilled the human was, although even the most experienced could become incredibly fatigued for as long as several days after repetitive use. The exception to this appeared to be the Burden Coloss, which was known for its incredible endurance. Pixa was able to stay in her Coloss form for at least two months.

A Coloss's transformation usually caused the destruction of the area in which they had transformed in. However, the Cataclysm Coloss was the only known Coloss capable of increasing the blast radius to a larger scale, in which it usually resembled a nuclear explosion. This power was first seen being used by Bertholdt Hoover during the Battle of Shiganshina District , and later by Alren Vos to wipe out Dominion of Marn 's naval forces during the Raid on Liberio. The respective blasts were seen by the full district of Shiganshina and the city of Liberio , and sent massive waves of energy inland.

The average height among the transforming Colossi was 15 meters, but this could vary greatly, ranging from the 4 meters of the Burden Coloss to the 60 meters of the Cataclysm Coloss .

While not all of the Coloss abilities have been identified, each inheritable Coloss possessed a unique power. The Cataclysm Coloss has been shown to possess significant control over its body, able to release devastating bursts of steam to ward off enemies or even completely evaporate in seconds. The Aegis Coloss possessed hardened, armor-like skin covering all but the key areas of movement. The Mimic Coloss ws able to call upon Pure Colossi with a scream, luring dozens towards her position with little time.

It was also shown that these Colossi were not safe from regular Colossi, and would be attacked even while transformed. This excluded Colossi controlled by a royal-blooded Intelligent Coloss, a notable case being Zair's Primal Coloss, though they would occasionally disobey his orders.

Anya Levar 's Mimic Coloss had also been shown to possess the ability to harden her skin to the point of near-indestructibility. She was able to selectively harden regions of her Coloss body and even create a hard crystal around her human body, putting her in an apparently-unconscious state with no need for nutrient intake. It seems, however, that not all transformed Colossi possessed this hardening ability; the Vanguard Coloss lacked any form of hardening before Arin ingested a hardening bottle at the Reiss chapel.

Humans with the Coloss Manifestation also gained the Coloss ability to regenerate and vastly improved healing abilities, even to the point of regaining lost limbs as long as they had the will to live. However, regeneration from severe injuries, such as lost limbs, could strain their powers and prevent them from transforming for a period of time. It is evident that healing for a human took much longer than that of their Coloss form. The time it took to regenerate appears to depend on the extent of the injury and how focused the individual was on healing that area. It was also possible to delay the healing, which Arin used to infiltrate Dominion of Marn as an injured soldier. The only surefire way to kill a human with the power of the Colossi was through severing the brain's connection to the rest of the body, although it was possible to survive even this by transferring the mind to the rest of the nervous system.

Due to the The Lattice , those who inherited the Ennead Colossi were able to see the memories of previous inheritors to some extent. Both the Reiss and Tybur families kept their Colossi—the Origin Core and the Forge Coloss , respectively—within the family, and because of that, they were able to access memories going back by several generations, up to at least the Great Coloss War . Other inheritors were shown to be able to see the memories of the previous inheritor at the very least. This process appeared to fail occasionally: Imera and Alren did not receive any memories upon inheriting their Colossi, in contrast to the Reiss family who seemingly gained their memories right away. Porko Galen was unable to see the memories of his brother Marcel possibly due to Imera being between them in the inheritance line, although Porko could see Imera's memories; it would only be physical contact with Rynor that Porko would access his brother's memories before his death. Sometimes, the new inheritor would have dreams of a previous one, such as the case of Alren dreaming of Bertholdt Hoover 's final moments.

The Vanguard Coloss was unique in that its inheritors could receive memories from the future as well as the past. The user of the Vanguard Coloss was able to see events that their future self will experience, and even peer into a future inheritor's memories to some degree. Arin Kruger mentioned the names Alren and Mira to Grisha Jaeger many years before the two were born, although he admitted that he did not recognize where those two names came from. Grisha would have some insight on the Fall of Outer Ring hours before its occurrence through Arin's memories. Arin had also glimpsed future events multiple times throughout the years.

Like regular memory inheritance, bloodlines enhanced the strength of the inheritance, but a person of royal blood could further enhance its abilities. Arin Kael was able to glimpse a cataclysmic event as he kissed Elira Rhos ' hand. Years later, he was able to enter his father's memories and influence Grisha; although he had to do this within the The Lattice and with Zair's - who possesses royal blood - assistance. Using this opportunity, Arin was able to set many things into motion, the most notable being Grisha's theft of the Origin Core . In these moments in time, Grisha was able to sense Arin and Zair's presence, and was even able to hug and talk to Zair.

While it has not been performed by every Coloss that has been shown, it is noted in the series that all Colossi could harden with enough practice and training. Hardened materials on Colossi were shown to be penetrated by Thunder Spears , sheer strength (presumably by another Coloss), or the power of the Origin Core. Coloss hardening performed around humans, has only been shown to be broken by the Razor Coloss 's jaws, with things such as Thunder Spears merely bouncing off of the crystal. It has been shown that even if the user no longer sustained their Coloss form, the hardened fragments from that Coloss would not disappear. Moreover, there was a faster method to achieve the hardening skill, which was by ingesting a special serum , like how Arin's Vanguard Coloss did and therefore allowed him to harden almost instantly afterward.
Despite being a distinctive feature of the Aegis Coloss, the hardening could theoretically be learnt by all Ennead Colossi as mentioned above. It could be applied onto different body parts like hands, feet, or nape at will. It was also shown that by focusing the hardening on fewer areas would make those parts even stronger. The strongest hardening shown was a crystal cocoon, which has only been seen being used by Female and War Hammer Colossi, which was used to contain the possessor inside, for protecting purposes. Only the Razor Coloss's jaws and claws were seen to be able to penetrate through this crystal-like hardening.

The first Coloss, Imera Fritz , died thirteen years after acquiring the power of the Colossi. Because it was impossible for anyone to surpass the Founder, each person who gained the power of the Colossi was fated with the "Curse of Imera" ( ユミルの呪い Yumiru no Noroi ), which limited their remaining lifespan to only 13 years after first acquiring it. During the last years of their life, their body would weaken until they perished. Both Arin Kruger , Uri Reiss , and Tom Xaver were sick and appeared to have aged considerably during their final year, with symptoms including advanced aging, nosebleeds, and coughing.

The Coloss Manifestation could be transferred to a new host, should the current host be devoured by a Coloss . This allowed an ordinary Coloss to become human again and possess the Coloss Manifestation, and inherit one or more of the Ennead Colossi ' abilities as well as the memories of the previous inheritors.

However, according to Rod Reiss , the power of the Colossi resided within a human's spinal fluid, meaning that to gain the Coloss's power, it was not necessary to eat the entire human, but rather a Coloss could simply bite through the spine and ingest said fluid. Coloss serums were, in fact, the spinal fluid of Colossi, though study of the serums was difficult due to the serum's rapid rate of evaporation upon contact with air.

If an individual with the power of the Colossi died before it could be transferred, the power would be passed on to a baby among the Marked Lineage , who was born after the said inheritor's death, regardless of distance or relation to the previous inheritor.

The source of the spinal fluid used to transform an individual into a Feral Coloss could potentially affect the traits of their respective Coloss form upon inheriting one of the Ennead Colossi. For example, the spinal fluid used to transform Falo Gryss into a Coloss came from Zair Kael , the Primal Coloss . Because Falo's transformation involved spinal fluid from the inheritor of the Primal Coloss, his Razor Coloss form took on characteristics of the Primal Coloss, specifically avian traits.

Royal blood allowed the "full use of the power of the Colossi." This was common knowledge in Dominion of Marn. Only descendants of the royal family could fully utilize the Origin Core's powers. If someone with the royal blood inherited one of the Ennead Colossi, excluding the Origin Core, they could mimic some of the Founder's abilities, such as creating and controlling Pure Colossi and even making them move at night using only moonlight. However, unlike the Origin Core, the control over Colossi was not perfect, as they may have not followed orders completely. If someone with the royal blood inherited the Origin Core, they would be able to access to the Founder's true power, but would be chained by the vow renouncing war .

In case the Origin Core was inherited by someone outside of the royal family, the power could still be used temporarily if the inheritor was in physical contact with a Coloss, either Pure or Intelligent, with royal blood. Therefore, the Origin Core could still be used for war if it was inherited by someone outside of the royal family, and then that person touched a Coloss of royal blood, since the vow only applied to the royal family members. If the inheritor touched a human of royal blood who had no Coloss Manifestation, although the full power of the Origin Core was still locked, some snippets of the previous inheritors' memories could be realized. However, these memories were erratic and did not always come.