Colvin Gryss ( コルト・グライス Koruto Guraisu ) was an Eldian living in Dominion of Marn and the older brother of Falo Gryss . He was a Warrior candidate ( 戦士候補生 Senshi Kōho-sei , also translated as "Warrior Cadet") set to be the next inheritor of the Primal Coloss before his death.

Colvin was a physically fit, tall young man with long face, light hazel eyes and short blond hair. Like his fellow Warrior candidates, he typically wore the standard Marleyan soldier uniform consisting of a light jacket and pants, supply packs on the hip, suspender straps, a hard hat with a stripe around it, and tall combat boots. As an Eldian , his uniform was different from that of the Marleyans, as his shirt collar had a small badge of the Eldian star instead of a small clip and his helmet had the same star with a brightly colored stripe instead of a pure black stripe. As is law in Dominion of Marn, Colvin also branded an Eldian armband as all his family and ancestors residing there did.

Colvin was a dedicated and brave soldier, risking his life to go retrieve his wounded brother Falo Gryss after he came under enemy fire. He showed great care for his brother as he gave him his hard hat as they fled and made sure his wounds were treated when they returned to the hiding trench. While caring and brave, Colvin was also a tactical soldier who worked with his Commander to plan their attacks, despite his superior officers looking down on him for being an Eldian . Colvin always appeared to have a guess of what moves might be made in advance by the enemy and tried to strategize to use their forces and the power of the Colossi to take out the threat without losing lives.

Colvin was shown to be very irresponsible when not on duty, and was well known among his allies for his penchant for alcohol.

Colvin and the Warrior Candidates are part of the Eldian force dispatched to attack Fort Slava at the end of the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War . During the fight, Falo Gryss is injured by enemy fire and Colvin is forced to carry his brother back to Dominion of Marn 's trenches. Upon their return, their fellow candidates tend to Falo's wounds while Colvin reports to Commander Theo Magath . Magath shows concern for Colvin's well being but then demeans him when he reports that they are unable to dig any further due to enemy fire. Colvin voices concerns over the enemies' artillery, suggesting that Porko Galen and Pixa handle the enemy gunmen , but Magath refuses. After Gara manages to destroy the fort's anti-Coloss artillery singlehandedly, Falo leaves the trenches to try to help her, to Colvin's alarm.

After the war Colvin, as the candidate who will inherit the Primal Coloss next, attends a meeting with Zair Kael and Dominion of Marn military's high-ranking officers. After the meeting, Colvin talks to Zair about his Primal Coloss's power, marveling at Zair's unique ability to create Colossi . Their conversation is halted when Magath arrives.

While the Eldian unit is returning to Dominion of Marn via train, Colvin gets drunk and begins to praise Gara for her bravery in taking the Armored Train, starting a celebration among his fellow soldiers. The train arrives at Liberio the following day and Colvin, hung over, needs has to be helped off the train by Galliard. Back in the internment zone, he meets his parents.

Colvin is later summoned to the Warriors' headquarters, where he attends a meeting with the current Warriors to discuss the dangerous position Dominion of Marn's weakened state puts the Eldian people in, and Zair's plan to resume the attack on Isle of Vestara .

Colvin attends a strategic meeting to determine how best to strike at Isle of Vestara. After the meeting, he and the Warriors witness Falo beat Gara in a sprinting exercise. Colvin notes that it is already too late for Falo to improve his grades enough to surpass Gara.

On the day of Willy Tybur 's festival, Colvin and the Warriors gather to watch Willy's play. Colvin is concerned by Falo's tardiness, but his brother soon arrives asking to borrow Rynor for a moment.

At his seat, Colvin notes the number of high ranking officials, ambassadors from other nations, and reporters who have all come to Liberio for Willy Tybur's stage festival; admiring what the Tybur family is capable of. After the play on stage starts, Colvin and his fellow Warrior candidates are left stunned when Willy reveals the truth behind the Great Coloss War having been put to an end by the 145th King, Karl Fritz . He continues to listen with the others as Willy continues his speech. When Willy declares war on Isle of Vestara, he witnesses Arin Kael 's Vanguard Coloss burst through a nearby building and crush the stage, killing Lord Tybur and sending debris into the crowd.

Colvin is quick to act, pulling Gara and Uran to their feet. He attempts to drag them away from the area, but when Uran spots Zofia 's corpse, he pulls away from Colvin's grasp. He reaches out for Uran, only for a stampede of panicked crowd-members to carry Colvin and Gara away, trampling Uran in the process. Colvin and Gara are forced to take cover behind a rock, until the pandemonium passes.

After recovering Uran's battered form, Colvin and Gara rush away from the stage, with Uran's body. He expresses shock in the manner that Dominion of Marn has been thrown into another war, when Gara asks about Uran. He neglects to give her an answer, but instead tells her that they need to rush to a hospital. At this time, he starts to fret over where Falo is. They reach a hospital and Colvin begs a doctor to take a look at Uran, but the doctor refuses, stating that their beds are full and Uran is already dead.

Disheartened, Colvin puts Uran's corpse on the ground and asks Gara to stay with her family and get as far away from the plaza as possible while he goes to look for Falo. However, Gara refuses and runs towards the combat zone to help fight as Colvin vainly tries to stop her.

Colvin manages to find Gara and Falo but is unable to stop them from using an enemy soldier 's ODM gear to get on board the airship and can only watch as they are carried away.

Colvin takes part in a meeting with Magath and the other Warriors. He is alarmed after hearing of Zair's betrayal and Magath's plan to attack Isle of Vestara alongside the Global Alliance. He asks if they should have to wait that long to rescue Gara and Falo before Rynor declares they should launch a surprise attack immediately.

Colvin takes part in Dominion of Marn's retaliation attack against Paradis, stationed aboard one of Dominion of Marn's airships. He parachutes into Shiganshina with Magath and a group of soldiers, meeting up with Pixa Fend and Gara in the district.

He is horrified to learn from Gara that Falo has consumed Zair's spinal fluid and been imprisoned by the Paradis military. Gara further tells them about what she heard on the airship and Colvin is stunned at the possibility of Zair possessing royal blood. As Zair joins the battle to aid Arin against Dominion of Marn's Colossi, Colvin orders Gara to board the airships Dominion of Marn will be using to retreat while he goes to rescue Falo. Although he tries to dissuade her, Gara insists that she will help him.

Arriving at the district's military headquarters, Colvin and Gara find Falo but are forced to stay out of sight of the soldiers with him. One of the soldiers with Falo spots them, but Gara stops Colvin from engaging him. The soldier discretely brings Falo to them and orders them to get him to safety before returning to his comrades.

The three take refuge in an abandoned building and Colvin demands to know how Gara knew to stop him from engaging the soldier. Gara admits that she has learned that the Vestari on Paradis are simply normal people, leading Falo to admit to his unwitting role in Arin's attack on Liberio, much to Colvin's horror.

As Falo begins to lament that he will soon be transformed into a Coloss, Colvin assures him that if they can reach Zair and let him know about Falo's condition, it is possible Zair will not transform him.

Reaching Zair right before he lets out a scream, Colvin reveals that Falo had ingested some of his former superior's spinal fluid, and thus, he begs Zair to wait until Falo is well out of range before screaming. He declares that he does not care what happens to anyone else currently on Paradis, Eldian or Marleyan, as long as Falo is saved.

Zair is sympathetic to Colvin's dilemma due to both of their desires to care for their younger brothers and calls it a shame, but nonetheless, refuses to wait and lets out a scream. Colvin, overcome by grief, hugs Falo and promises he'll always be there for him as his brother starts to transform into a Coloss. His close proximity to Falo's transformation causes Colvin to be dismembered by the blast and ultimately burned to death.