Conny Springer is a member of the Recon Legion, ranking 8th among the 104th Cadet Corps.

Conny Springer ( コニー・スプリンガー Konī Supuringā ) is a graduate of 104th Cadet Corps , he was ranked 8th out of the top 10. He is a member of the Recon Legion .

Conny used to be one of the shorter members of the Recon Legion , standing two centimetres shorter than Kael Acken . He has a slim build, with bright hazel eyes, and his gray hair is distinctively kept shaved. Conny is typically dressed in standard military garb, and dons the Recon Legion cape when on missions.

His casual attire consists of a simple long-sleeve white shirt and shin-length brown slacks.

By the year 854, Conny has grown significantly taller, now standing slightly above average height. His hair has grown slightly longer, but stays in the same general style, and his facial features have sharpened. During the Raid on Liberio , he wears a black uniform, with belts and support rods for his anti-personnel omni-directional mobility gear .

After transforming into a Feral Coloss, Conny's Feral Coloss grew tall enough to reach and attack the Aegis Coloss 's head. It lacked proper flesh on its cheekbones, exposing its teeth. It lacked an upper lip or skin above it, exposing its gums up to its nose. It otherwise retained most of its human features.

Conny can be best described as outgoing and impetuous. He has an easy time expressing his opinions, and enjoys flaunting his skills, especially during his days as a cadet. Despite being in the military, Conny starts off as rather unfocused and enjoys goofing around and messing with his friends, but can also be a bit dense at times.

Later, Conny's naive enthusiasm falls away after multiple close encounters with the Colossi. He never becomes more serious, though to his frustration, he still has some difficulty comprehending new developments as they appear. Conny also comes to terms with his own limits, disliking his lack of power, but eager to prove his worth. For a long time, Conny remained optimistic, consistently caring for the well-being of his friends, family and village, and being willing to help in any way he can.

However, this soft spot and the tragedies he goes through takes a toll on him. Initially reacting to those situations with denial, alarm and search for negotiation with those he was betrayed by, he becomes with each new grief more prompt to anger, irritation and hatred, losing his optimism and gaining in readiness to act against his opponents in order to protect the few selected friends he considers to be family.

His mother's transformation into a Coloss appears to have had a big effect on his psyche, and combined with all of the tragedies and betrayals he witnessed and went through caused him to take drastic measures to ensure she became human again: this was primarily seen when Conny suggested feeding Falo to his mother. He left his friends and took Falo to his village, lying to him about taking him to a hospital and abusing his trust. This reached the breaking point when Conny tricked Falo into brushing his mother's teeth, with the intention of pushing him into his mother's mouth, and when Alren and Gara arrived to stop him, he held a blade to Falo's neck. However, when Alren chose to jump into Mrs. Springer's mouth and allow himself to be eaten, Conny saved him at the last second, coming to the realization that his mother wanted him to be a good soldier, and knowing that having eaten Alren would just make her sad.

Conny signs up as a new recruit in the 104th Cadet Corps with the goal of eventually joining the Internal Directorate Regiment . His entry into the military is a clumsy one, and he winds up getting the military's salute wrong on the first day.

Later that day, Conny joins his fellow cadets in watching Sera Breen complete her punishment for eating during initiation. After learning that Arin Kael is from Shiganshina District , he joins the other cadets in questioning Arin about his first-hand experiences with Colossi .

During his omni-directional mobility gear training, Conny proves to be adept, and is one of the first people Arin asks for advice on how to operate it. Conny proves to be of no help, claiming that he is just naturally talented.

Like many of his fellow cadets, Conny gradually begins to slack off during training exercises that will not go towards helping him graduate in the top 10. However, after witnessing Arin thoroughly best Jaren Kirel during a physical confrontation thanks to his training, Conny begins taking his training seriously as well.

For the remainder of his training, Conny can be seen practicing using ODM gear, which he is particularly proficient in, as well as messing with his fellow recruits, or goofing around with Sera, whom he becomes fast friends with.

In the year 848, the 104th Cadet Corps is given a wilderness exercise, Conny is assigned to Marco Bodt 's group. Later that night a group of thieves ambush and steal their omni-directional mobility gear , before taking Christa Lenz hostage. The group devises a plan to rescue Christa and get back the omni-directional mobility gear, Conny helps bring down the tree to prevent the thieves from taking the widest road. The group successfully rescues Christa and reacquires their omni-directional mobility gear.

In the year 849, the 104th Cadet Corps head to Trost District for a Coloss invasion drill. Conny states that he has never been in a walled city before, and Sera Breen mentions that there are all sorts of tasty things here. Hearing this, Jaren Kirel mocks Conny and Sera for their comments.

During the drill, Jaren has his Coloss kill credit stolen by Conny, Sera, and Rynor Feld . Afterwards, Jaren accuses Conny and Sera of cheating. Jaren then insults Sera by calling her Potato Girl, to which Conny tells Jaren to apologize at once. When Jaren challenges them to a fight, Commander Pyxis intervenes, telling them to settle the score in the kitchen. He announces a cooking competition between Jaren and Sera, with the winner determined by himself as the judge.

Conny and Rynor elect to help Sera in the cooking competition, and agree to aid her in hunting down the colossal boar living in the woods outside of Trost. Their team finds the boar before the team that Jaren assembles, and kill it so that its meat can be used in Sera's dish.

Conny graduates ranked 8th among the 104th Cadet Corps . Afterwards, Arin and Jaren get into a fight over Arin's decision to join the Recon Legion and Jaren's decision to join the Internal Directorate . Arin's passionate words in favor of the Recon Legion during the altercation inspire Conny to consider joining the regiment himself.

The following day, he is assigned to the same team as Arin and is sent to clean the cannons mounted along to the top of Middle Ring in Trost District . As they are cleaning, Conny reveals his intent to join the Recon Legion, although he insists that Arin's words had nothing to do with the decision. Sera arrives with meat that she has stolen from the officers' lounge, and although Conny insists that she return it, the squad is eventually convinced to partake.

Hopeful of the future, the group return to cleaning and repairing the cannons only to be stopped by the sudden appearance of the Cataclysm Coloss . Taken by surprise, the entire group are blown from the Wall by a powerful wave of steam.

During the ensuing battle , he and his squad discover a catatonic Alren Vos , and try to question him about what happened to his squad. When Alren is unresponsive, Imera suggests simply leaving him, leading to a heated argument between her and Conny, which Christa has to break up. Conny tries again to snap Alren out of his stupor, but Alren ignores him and departs to join the rear guard, and Conny's squad begins to advance toward the front.

Joining the front lines, Conny is among the cadets that are left stranded in the middle of Trost, low on gas, but unable to reach the Coloss-infested headquarters to resupply. Conny suggests making a last ditch effort to break into the headquarters, as they are going to die anyway if they do nothing, but Jaren points out that they have no one to take charge and lead them.

When Mira takes charge, Conny joins the cadets in making an attack on the headquarters. During the attack, Mira's equipment runs out of gas, and she is left stranded. Conny goes with Alren to retrieve her, warning them that they need to move before Colossi arrive. They are shocked at the sight of an abnormal Coloss fighting off approaching Colossi, but Conny insists that it is just an abnormal and that they should avoid it. Mira trades equipment with Alren, and at Alren's suggestion, she and Conny kill the Colossi surrounding the abnormal and lead it to the headquarters.

Successfully reaching the headquarters, Conny takes part in Alren's plan to clear out the smaller Colossi inside of the building. He is among the seven cadets assigned to take down a Coloss in the supply room with one strike. While he fails to kill his target with his first blow, he is rescued by Anya Levar . Upon resupplying, he and the other cadets leave the headquarters immediately.

He and his fellow cadets are placed on standby, and Conny takes the opportunity to tell his fellow soldiers about how he and the others managed to resupply. He is surprised to hear that Mira has not returned yet, but when he asks Jaren what happened to her, Jaren claims he was ordered not to tell.

As ordered, in the aftermath of the battle of Trost District , he reports his omni-directional mobility gear to the Internal Directorate Regiment for inspection as a part of the investigation over the deaths of the two captured Colossi , presumed to have been killed by a soldier using ODM gear. Despite his fears in facing the Colossi in combat again, he volunteers to become a member of the Recon Legion .

He is one of the soldiers perched on top of one of the Giant Trees , waiting for word from Kael's Squad with the others. He is seen returning from the failed 57th Scouting Mission along with the others, and is later seen in the field riding a horse along with Sera Breen, Rynor Feld , Bertholdt Hoover , Christa Lenz and Imera .

Conny is again seen with a group of Recon Legion recruits being investigated by Miche Zacharius under suspicion of being one of Anya's accomplices. However, when Colossi suddenly appear within Middle Ring , Miche sends them in groups to warn the surrounding villages.

Since Conny's village, Ragako , is in the path of the Colossi, he receives permission to join the group heading in that direction. They find the village deserted, but there are no dead bodies and no sign that anybody has fled. Atop the ruins of his house, Conny finds an immobile Coloss bearing some resemblance to his mother. The Coloss welcomes him home, to his disbelief. He tries to tell the group but is quickly dismissed by Rynor, who tells him to focus on the mission. After the sun sets, Conny and the rest of his group take refuge in Utgard Castle , an abandoned structure, which eventually falls under attack by Colossi which are mysteriously active at night.

During the siege, Conny is attacked by a smaller Coloss, but Rynor rescues him, injuring his arm in the process. Conny expresses frustration at the fact that Rynor has always saved him, and promises to repay him back sometime in the future. Like all the others, he is shocked to see Imera turn into a Coloss , noting that while Arin at first had no idea of his Coloss powers, Imera seems to have been fully conscious of it the whole time. After Hanna and their squad rescue them, Conny joins the group in returning to Middle Ring.

When a battle breaks out and the Armored and Colossal Colossi appear, Conny is busy tending to the wounded and does not immediately understand what has happened. He fears for Bertholdt and Rynor, who he thinks are missing, unaware that they are the enemies being fought.

After the battle, Conny is in shock after being told that Rynor and Bertholdt are the Armored and Colossal Colossi respectively. He joins the rescue mission to save Arin, but refuses to believe the claims about Rynor and Bertholdt until he hears it straight from their mouths. When the team finally makes it to the forest , where Hanna suspects Rynor and Bertholdt are recuperating, he is among those who identify Imera in her Coloss form. He is confused and agitated at the fact that Imera does not answer any questions. When Elira arrives, Imera "eats" her and escapes. The soldiers follow them to the edge of the forest, but are unable to catch her before and Rynor transforms back into the Aegis Coloss and Imera jumps on his shoulder to escape.

He catches up to the traitors and uses his omni-directional mobility gear to climb on to Rynor's shoulder. Together with Jaren, Sera, Mira and Alren, he confronts Bertholdt and Rynor, asking if they were ever true friends. He begins to reminisce about their time in the 104th Cadet Corps , and this, along with Jaren's own questions, causes Bertholdt to have an emotional breakdown. Bertholdt says he considered them "true comrades," but before the group can react to his confession, Hannes warns them that Orwin Hale is leading a horde of Colossi straight at them and the 104th jumps clear of the incoming onslaught. Conny is forced to watch in horror as his former friends charge straight into the horde of Colossi. When Rynor is immobilized by the sheer number of Colossi, Erwin orders the soldiers to attack and retrieve Arin. Conny follows the others into battle.

He later appears elsewhere on the battlefield, using the chaos to retrieve Elira. When she protests that he should leave her and that Imera is going to be killed if she does not go with the traitors, Conny demands she rethink things. He asks if Imera's claims are true, and states that even an idiot could figure out that Imera only gets serious for Elira's sake. He advises them to follow him and retreat for now, or else they will all be killed. However, before they can escape, the Aegis Coloss begins throwing Colossi at them.

As the battle gets worse, Conny begins fighting Colossi alongside Elira, Imera, and Sera. In the middle of the chaos, a newly freed Arin punches a smiling Coloss in a fit of rage, triggering something that causes all the other mindless Colossi to devour it. When Rynor tries pursuing him, Arin screams at him and Bertholdt, telling them to get away, or he will kill them. The Coloss horde then charges at the two. Erwin calls for a full retreat and when Imera hesitates, Conny urges her to come along. Instead, she apologizes to Elira and heads back to help Rynor and Bertholdt. Before Elira can follow, Conny takes the reins of her horse and forces her to join the retreat.

Back at Trost District , Conny and Hanna visit Kael , Erwin and Dot Pyxis . Hanna theorizes that the recent Colossi originated from Conny's village, and that Colossi may very well be humans. Conny is there to confirm their findings, and he attends while holding his parents ' portrait.

Some time later, Conny is selected to be a member of the new Squad Kael assigned to safeguard Arin and Elira in an isolated forest cabin.

Conny and his squad mates spend their time alternating between acting as lookouts on the perimeter of the cabin, and doing various chores. While he is helping with chores, Conny overhears Arin lamenting his lack of progress in hardening his Coloss's skin means that they will not be able to reseal Outer Ring any time soon. Conny claims that all he cares about is getting his revenge against the Primal Coloss, before excusing himself to go act as a lookout, frustrated with himself for getting caught up in his anger.

The squad receives a message from Erwin warning them that the government is freezing all Scout activity outside the Barrier Rings and is demanding that Arin and Elira be handed over. Kael and Hanna abandon the cabin with their squads, and Conny goes with Kael and his squad to Trost District where they hope to avoid the Internal Directorate. There, a carriage comes crashing through and seemingly kidnaps Jaren and Alren, disguised as Arin and Elira.

The squad pursues the kidnappers to their hideout and apprehend them. Shortly after, Conny and the others hear the sound of gunshots and go to investigate. They spot the wagon carrying an unconscious Arin and Elira with Kael in pursuit. To Conny's shock, Kael kills a soldier following him and orders the squad to chase the wagon and kill their opponents, given the chance.

Following the battle, Dimo Reeves agrees to help Kael's squad and tricks two Military Policemen of the First Interior Squad to come with him to a remote cabin, where Conny and other members of Kael Squad take them hostage at gunpoint. Conny and the rest of the squad listen uncomfortably to the screams as Kael and Hanna conduct their interrogation. When the two are through, Jaren and the others are informed that Arin and Elira are likely being held near Rod Reiss .

After the Recon Legion is accused of trying to monopolize Arin's Coloss powers , the government begins arresting all members of the organization. Conny and the rest of Squad Kael avoid being captured, and camp out in the woods outside of Stohess . Marlo and Hitch lead them to a nearby MP checkpoint and Conny, Sera, and Jaren use a carriage to break down its roablocks. After attacking the compound, Squad Kael successfully captures a member of the Internal Directorate and retreat to question him. Their interrogation is interrupted by Sera, who sees someone approaching. To the entire squad's delight it is Hanna, who informs them that the Scouts have been exonerated, and that they have a lead on Arin and Elira's whereabouts.

Conny participates in the attack on the cavern beneath the Reiss Chapel , firing signal flares to provide cover for Kael and Mira, before joining the fight with his ODM gear. However, they are unable to reach Arin and Elira in time, and are unable to stop Rod Reiss from using the Coloss Catalyst to turn himself into a Coloss. Conny helps Jaren and Kael unchain Arin, but is left trapped with his squad, with no way of escaping the collapsing cavern. With no other alternative, Conny and the rest of the squad watches as Arin attempts to save them, crushing a bottle labeled "Armor" in his mouth as he transforms into his Coloss form.

Having survived thanks to Arin's new hardening ability, Conny starts looking for an exit, which he finds in the form of a hole in the roof of the cavern. After helping his teammates out of the cavern, Conny and the rest of Squad Kael follow Rod's Coloss form to the Orvud District , where they plan to fight him. Once Rod's Coloss arrives at the Wall, Squad Kael douse themselves in water to endure the extreme heat from the steam. Arin uses his Coloss form to blow Rod's head apart with gunpowder-filled barrels, and Conny and his comrades use ODM gear to cut the flying pieces of Rod's head in order to destroy his nape and kill him.

After Elira is crowned as the new queen, Conny and Squad Kael accompany her as she goes to find Kael so she can punch him. The squad tries to talk her down, but she punches the captain as soon as she sees him. Expecting Kael to retaliate, the squad is surprised when he reacts by smiling and thanking them.

After Elira is crowned queen, she starts an orphanage with the Reiss family's funds, which Conny and the rest of Squad Kael begin working on in their spare time. Conny is seen eating with his fellow soldiers and new recruits of the Recon Legion, but decides to go to sleep early, explaining that he plans to visit his home village the following day.

At night during dinner after Conny and Alren horsed around, when the squad leaders decide to serve meat to the scouts to celebrate their return to Shiganshina, a tearful Conny is forced to hold Sera back as she attempts to devour as much of it as possible. After tying her up, Conny reminds Arin of the time Sera actually offered to share meat with her comrades, right before the Cataclysm Coloss appeared outside of Trost District. He and Arin are both left in awe at how much they have accomplished in the months since then.

The next day, as the Recon Legion prepares to depart, they are surprised by the arrival of a large crowd of civilians who eagerly cheer them on. Conny and the rest of the recruits begin cheering along with them, but are left dumbfounded when the normally stoic Erwin begins cheering also, before beginning the expedition.

After arriving in Shiganshina, Conny takes his position atop Outer Ring and watches with his fellow scouts as Arin uses his hardening ability to fill the hole in the Wall. After Arin seals the hole, Conny and his squad go to meet up with the rest of the Recon Legion, but stop and take up positions atop the Wall after Erwin shoots a signal flare into the air. From there they witness Rynor's emergence from within Outer Ring, and the appearance of the Primal Coloss and his army.

As Arin and Rynor fight in their Coloss forms, Conny and his squad surround the two and prepare to help Arin. After Hanna and Mira manage to blind Rynor, Conny and the rest of the squad use their Thunder Spears to hit his Coloss form's nape and expose his human body. Although he and Sera find themselves unwilling to kill Rynor, Jaren manages to convince them to carry on with their mission. Although they fire another round of Thunder Spears into Rynor, completely destroying his nape, Conny and Sera are left devastated by the act. Their sorrow agitates Jaren and though he tries to get them to accept what they have done, they do not stop crying until Rynor's inert form begins roaring.

Conny quickly evacuates the immediate area around Rynor with the rest of the soldiers as Hanna announces that Bertholdt will be attacking them from above. After Alren unsuccessfully tries to negotiate with Bertholdt, Conny and his teammates use Arin's Coloss form to shield themselves as Bertholdt transforms.

The sight of Bertholdt's Coloss rampaging through Shiganshina briefly frightens Conny into hysterics, but Sera manages to calm him down by hitting him on the head. Under Jaren's order, Conny and the group get on Coloss Arin's shoulders to move to the river while conserving gas. Conny gives Mira a Thunder Spear for her to penetrate the Cataclysm Coloss's nape. When Coloss Arin initiates his attack, Conny and the group scatter. When Arin is unable to hurt Bertholdt, and is instead kicked into the side of Outer Ring, Conny and the rest of the squad are forced to engage Bertholdt on their own. Although they try to distract Bertholdt long enough for Mira to destroy his nape with a Thunder Spear, they are unsuccessful.

After Rynor's return to the battle, Conny participates in Squad Kael's plan to keep him away from Arin and Alren. While Jaren attempts to distract Rynor, Conny and Sera attempt to use their Thunder Spears to blow his Coloss's jaw apart, but are caught off guard when Rynor attacks them with debris from nearby houses. Although Conny manages to hit Rynor with his Thunder Spear, Sera is severely injured and Conny is forced to carry her body to safety.

After Mira and Hanna defeat Rynor, Conny continues to watch over Sera's unconscious body while the rest of his teammates discuss with Hanna what to do with Rynor. When Rynor is rescued by Zair and the Burden Coloss , Conny begins to pursue them but is stopped by Hanna, who points out that his ODMG is almost out of gas. Conny comes to the rooftop with Sera, Jaren and Hanna, who prevents Mira from hurting Kael. As his squad leaves the roof, Conny tearfully says goodbye to Alren. After Kael chooses to give the serum to Alren, Conny and his squad help Alren out of his new Coloss body.

Conny helps search for more survivors following the battle, returning to the top of Outer Ring after seeing a smoke signal from Kael. While Alren is debriefed on what has happened while he was unconscious, Conny busies himself bringing Sera water.

After returning home victorious, Conny attends a meeting with the rest of the survivors of the expedition where they are debriefed on the information they recovered from Arin's basement . An awards ceremony is later held for him and his fellow survivors.

After the Battle for Shiganshina , during the time when Colossi are being eradicated from Isle of Vestara through the Executioner from Hell , Conny requests for Ragako to become a "Coloss Observation Zone" and be left as-is. A year after the battle, Conny is among the Scouts to lead a scouting mission beyond Outer Ring, and finds a Coloss whose limbs were so small that it could only crawl. He is among the Scouts to arrive at the sea .

Conny is a member of a group of Scouts sent to defend the Paradis coastline from ships sent from Dominion of Marn . He witnesses Arin beaching a ship with his Coloss form and the resulting exchange between Hanna and Yelena .

Conny helps his friends work on a railroad track while they discuss opening diplomatic relations with other nations of the world. However, Hanna arrives to inform the group that Hizuru did not gain them any allies. As the group departs by train, they discuss who should inherit Arin's Coloss. After Jaren volunteers himself, Conny says that Jaren has the potential to be a leader and that him dying after 13 years would be a waste.

Conny subsequently volunteers himself, but Sera argues that such a power is too important to be given to a fool like him and claims she will inherit it instead. Conny is confused by Sera's argument, arguing that her own logic eliminates her as she is even dumber than he is. Arin interrupts the debate, stating that they are all too precious to him to receive a power that will end their lives in 13 years, and vows to choose someone else.

Eventually, Conny travels to Dominion of Marn with the rest of the Special Operations Squad. He is amazed by the difference in lifestyle in Dominion of Marn along with Jaren and Sera. Conny attends a meeting with Kiyomi Azumabito, but notices with Mira that Arin has disappeared. With the others, Conny finds him at a refugee camp. They all take part in celebrating with one of the families residing there and are found that morning by Kael, Hanna and Onyankopon. Later, Conny attends a gathering to hear from the Association for the Protection of Imera's Subjects and is dismayed to hear they are still viewed as devils by the majority of Dominion of Marn and the other countries represented.

In the year 854, Conny is one of the Scouts who participate in the infiltration, and later the attack in Liberio . He is grouped with Sera to pick off Marleyan soldiers and to block the street leading towards the internment zone. After succeeding, he plants beacons on a nearby rooftop, and leaves together with Sera. Conny and Sera regroup with Jaren to figure out their next move.

As the Jaw, Cart and Beast Colossi arrive to the battle, Sera and her allies regroup and prepare to face off with their enemies. He tries to assist Jaren in killing the Burden Coloss's operator , but is forced to retreat by Theo Magath and other Marleyan soldiers. He later notices the arrival of an airship commanded by Hanna Vey and informs Jaren, who is relieved to see that it has arrived on time.

Conny then retreats to the airship with the rest of the Scouts. When he sees Jaren and Sera are not cheering along with Floch and the other soldiers, he pulls both of them close and tells them that they are very special to him and he is glad they survived. He notices that Lobov has yet to join yet to return to the airship, but is cutoff by a girl rolling into the airship cabin. She fires her rifle, striking Sera, to Conny's horror. He crouches by Sera and calls for her to hold on until they get back to the island. However, Sera does not make it and Conny tearfully goes to report to the others that she has passed away. He tells Arin that her last words were "meat".

After returning to Paradis, the soldiers who were killed in Liberio are buried. While visiting their graves, Conny and Jaren are forced to defend Nicolo , a Marleyan prisoner-of-war, who is being harassed by another soldier. Learning that Nicolo had wanted to visit Sera's grave, they lead him to where she was buried. Conny thanks Nicolo for cooking good food for Sera when she was still alive, professing that he feels like a part of him is missing without her.

Conny, Jaren, Alren and Mira meet to discuss the recent occurrences in Paradis. As the other three discuss Pyxis's arrest of the Volunteers , Conny interrupts them, asking if Arin had seemed right in the head to them. Conny claims that Arin was not acting like himself, and declares that he will kill Arin himself if he has started cooperating with the enemy. Mira responds to Conny's threat in kind, and Conny asks her if she intends to join Arin in betraying them.

Mira protests that Arin still values them, but Conny reminds her that Sera's death was a result of Arin's acting on his own and dragging the Scouts into his attack. He drives his point home by revealing to Mira that Arin did not cry when he received the news of Sera's death, but laughed. Growing angry, Conny demands that Mira explain to him what could have possibly been funny about Sera's death to cause Arin to laugh.

Conny is present when Hanna questions a group of four Scouts led by Floch who leaked the news of Arin's arrest to the public. He, Jaren, and Mira help escort the four soldiers to cells after they are sentenced to imprisonment.

After they arrive at a restaurant, Jaren tries to take a sip of wine with Conny, suggesting it is fine since they are officers as well. However, Nicolo snatches the bottle away with Conny confused by his sudden outbursts. Afterward, Conny is called into the other room to find Nicolo threatening to kill two Marleyan Warrior cadets with a knife. After Nicolo surrenders his weapon, Conny assists in restraining him with Nicolo admitting the wine likely contains Zair's spinal fluid.

As Conny and Hanna rinse Falo Gryss 's mouth, Nicolo reveals that he was instructed to serve the wine to the military higher-ups. On hearing this, Conny argues that an Eldian freezes up on consuming the spinal fluid as seen in Ragako; Hanna reminds him that this information is unreliable, coming from Zair. Soon, Conny is captured by the Jaegerists and taken away, along with Hanna, Onyankopon and Jaren. He and the other captives are later seen in a holding cell in Shiganshina.

While imprisoned, he questions Alren's capability to use his power to escape but is rejected due to the Cataclysm Coloss's destructive power. As Jaren questions Alren about Arin, Conny is shocked to learn how he beat Alren to a pulp and hurt Mira with his words. He then harshly addresses Arin's behavior before they are interrupted by Yelena and is angered to see that Onyankopon is with her. Yelena explains Zair's true motives to the prisoners before they are interrupted by a soldier informing them of infiltrators. As the fight on the rooftop ensues, Conny and the other prisoners wonder what the sound overhead them was about.

Onyankopon arrives and frees them from their cell, begging them to help defend Arin. Conny flies into a rage at the thought of helping the people who betrayed him, and has to be talked down by Alren. Onyankopon claims to have had no knowledge of Yelena and Zair's euthanasia plan and although Jaren claims to believe him, he points out that helping Arin will only help them bring their plan to fruition. Alren argues that Arin will activate the World Fracture instead of going through with Zair's euthanasia plan and despite his reservations, Conny agrees to help.

After freeing the other prisoners, Conny and his comrades equip themselves with ODMG and weapons and proceed to the top of the headquarters to enter the battle. During the battle, the group splits up and Conny and Jaren go to aid Arin in his fight against Rynor and the Razor Coloss. They arrive in time to save Arin from being grabbed by Rynor, but are unable to stop Gara from shooting him with an anti-Coloss rifle.

Arin makes contact with Zair, activating the Origin Core and beginning the World Fracture. As Outer Ring begins to crumble, Jaren and Conny retrieve Falo from his Coloss and retreat to meet up with Alren and Mira. Jaren suggests feeding Falo to one of the Colossi which was transformed by Zair, which prompts Conny to argue that he should be allowed to give Falo to his mother.

Alren tries to argue against feeding Falo to anyone, arguing that it will only create more conflict with the Warriors. Conny is enraged and reminds Alren that he himself was saved by eating one of the Warriors, pointing out his hypocrisy in not allowing Conny's mother to be saved the same way he was. They are interrupted by a Feral Coloss, allowing Conny to take Falo and flee while his comrades are distracted.

Falo wakes up en route to Ragako and Conny claims to have saved the boy from the fighting in Shiganshina. As the two ride on horseback, Falo notes how far north they have traveled and Conny claims that he is taking Falo to a hospital which can help with his short-term memory loss. The pair stop to rest overnight and Conny spends the night grappling with the morality of what he is trying to do, wondering if Sera would agree with his decision.

When the pair arrive in Ragako, Conny is startled to learn that Falo knows the village and Falo reveals that he overheard Conny talking to himself the night before. Falo asks if Conny plans to try to avenge Sera's death, but Conny assures the boy that he understands Sera's death was a result of a military engagement. He brings Falo to his mother and attempts to trick the boy into getting eaten by telling him that they are going to brush the Coloss's teeth, but Gara and Alren arrive before they can begin.

Conny threatens to kill Falo if Alren approaches them and begins to try to feed the boy to his mother. Alren surprises him by using his gear to fly to a beam suspended above the Coloss. To Conny's horror Alren tries to feed himself to the Coloss and Conny is forced to save him before he can be eaten. As Gara and Falo reunite, Conny admits to Alren that he has come to understand that his mom would not want someone else to be sacrificed for her life. Lamenting that he almost murdered an innocent child, Conny resolves to save the people outside of the Barrier Rings so that he can be a soldier his mother would be proud of.

After returning to Shiganshina, the four take time to rest and eat. As they are eating, Conny and Alren discuss the possibility of Anya having escaped her crystal. As they are speaking, they realize that Anya is sitting next to them.

The group and Anya make a plan with Jaren, Mira and Pixa Fend to escape Shiganshina. After receiving a signal from Jaren to leave the military headquarters, Conny departs with his comrades. On their way out of Shiganshina, they pick up Rynor.

The group travels to Paradis' harbor with the intention of using the Azumabito clan's airship to pursue Arin, but find that it is already occupied by Jaegerists. The group gears up for a possible engagement, but Conny and his friends are reluctant to fight their former comrades. Their discussion is interrupted by Hanna who announces to everyone's horror that Arin has apparently already reached Dominion of Marn. A desperate Magath apologizes to the Vestari for how he and the rest of Dominion of Marn treated them and begs them to cooperate with him.

As part of a plan to trick Floch into turning over the Azumabito mechanics, Conny and Alren ride into the harbor and tell Floch that they have been pursuing the Burden Coloss ever since it devoured Jaren and Onyankopon. They tell Floch to send the Azumabito mechanics to help them start the ship so they can continue their pursuit and proceed to the ship without waiting for his response. They are stopped by Daz and Samuel and, seeing that the plane has been rigged to explode, demand that they disarm it. Daz and Samuel question them about their allegiance and Conny and Alren manage to convince them to begin disarming the bombs on the plane.

As they are waiting for the mechanics, Conny and Alren are horrified to hear gunshots, followed by an announcement from Floch that they and Mira are traitors. Daz begins rewiring the bombs on the plane and Alren is shot by Samuel for trying to stop him, to Conny's horror. Samuel holds Conny at gunpoint but is distracted by Rynor and Anya transforming, allowing Conny to tackle him. As he grapples with Samuel, Conny sees Daz preparing to kill Alren and, in desperation, takes Samuel's gun and uses it to kill him and Daz.

Conny carries Alren's injured form to the ship and passes him off to Magath, insisting that he is going to help defend the ship. Conny saves Rynor and Anya from being killed by Jaegerists and helps hold off the enemies' forces until the ship is ready to leave. He and Jaren then help carry Rynor into the ship.

At some point, Arin pulls Conny and the rest of his friends into The Lattice individually in order to speak with each of them. He reveals his true intentions, to have his friends kill him so that the outside world will be indebted to them, and wipes their memories so that they will not remember anything he has revealed until after his death.

Upon arriving in Odiha, Conny helps move the flying boat into a hangar to be worked on. He tries to help remove the explosives on the boat, but Alren recommends keeping them in case they are needed later. As preparations on the flying boat near completion, the soldiers equip their maneuvering gear. Floch appears and damages the ship's fuel tank, necessitating repairs. However, Arin's Colossi begin to arrive before repairs are completed and Hanna is forced to stay behind to hold them off long enough for Conny and the rest of the group to depart.

En route to Arin, Conny participates in a meeting to discuss the best plan to stop him. During the meeting, Conny apologizes to Rynor for the way he has treated him, admitting that helping kill the Jaegerists has helped him understand how Rynor, Bertholdt, and Anya felt during their time in the 104th.

The meeting is interrupted when the group is pulled into The Lattice by Arin. As his comrades try to talk Arin down, Conny apologizes for blaming Arin for Sera's death and for never assuming that it must have caused Arin just as much sorrow as the rest of them. Seeing Arin in the distance Conny, Alren, Mira, and Jaren try to reach him but are unable to get any closer. Arin tells them that he called them to The Lattice to let them know that they will have to kill him to stop the World Fracture, before sending them back to the flying boat.

As the flying boat reaches Arin it comes under fire from the Primal Coloss. Conny and his comrades jump from the boat and use their maneuvering gear to evade the Beast's projectiles before engaging it directly.

The group makes short work of the Primal Coloss, but finds that Zair is not present in its nape. On Alren's orders they retreat so that he will be able to transform and use the resulting explosion to try to uncover Zair. However, before Alren can transform an army of Colossi begins materializing and abducts him. The group is swarmed by the Colossi and Conny begins to panic, pointing out that they are running out of Thunder Spears. His worries are compounded when it is discovered that the Colossi attacking are reincarnated forms of past Ennead Colossi. Kael orders the squad to focus their efforts on saving Alren.

They do not get far before Bertholdt Hoover's Cataclysm Coloss appears. The Colossal disables Rynor's Coloss and then throws it at the group, knocking them off Arin's Coloss. Conny is knocked unconscious by the impact, and is only stopped from falling to his death by his maneuvering equipment's anchors. He regains consciousness just in time to save Kael from falling to his death after losing consciousness. The Colossi begin surrounding the group, but they are saved by the arrival of Falo, who has learned to fly with his Razor Coloss.

Atop Falo, Kael decides to have the group split up and try to simultaneously retrieve Alren and detonate the bombs on Arin's nape. Mira resists, but Conny desperately points out that they were nearly killed by Arin moments before. Jaren and Rynor are sent to attack Arin's nape while Conny accompanies Mira and Anya to rescue Alren. Unfortunately, the three do not get very far before they are surrounded and forced to stop their pursuit of Alren to focus on defending themselves. Just as they are about to be overwhelmed, Bertholdt's Coloss intervenes and begins fighting alongside them. Mira and Gara manage to free Alren from the okapi-like Coloss and Conny saves him when the Coloss tries to grab him again. Jaren manages to detonate Arin's nape thanks to the help of their new allies and Conny joins his friends in evacuating atop Falo's Coloss so that Alren can transform.

Returning to Fort Salta, Conny and the other soldiers are able to watch as the Warriors are reunited with their families. The group is relieved to see that Rynor has survived Alren's transformation and they are unsurprised to see that Arin and the centipede are also alive. Conny suggests focusing their efforts on the centipede, but Kael insists that their only option is to focus on killing Arin.

Before they can depart, however the centipede starts emitting smoke into the fort. Realizing that that the smoke is going to turn the Vestari in the fort into Colossi, Conny and Jaren are forced to stay behind while Falo, Pixa and the Ackermanns depart to fight Arin. As they watch their comrades depart, Conny jokingly muses that he would not be stuck saving the world if Jaren had not convinced him to join the Recon Legion.

The Vestari in Salta all transform and immediately being defending the centipede as it attempts to return to Arin.

Following Arin's death, the Coloss Manifestation is eliminated from the world and all of the Vestari return to their human forms. Recovering his memories of his final conversation with Arin, Conny is relieved at the realization that even his mother will be returned to her human form. As the Vestari regroup, the surviving Marleyan soldiers from Salta come out to confront them. The Marleyans threaten to kill them if they cannot prove that they are no longer Colossi, and only Alren is able to talk them down.

In the three years following Arin's death, the survivors of the "Battle of Heaven and Earth" at Fort Salta are made peace ambassadors between the remnants of the outside world and Paradis. As the ambassadors sail to Paradis to begin peace talks in the year 857, Anya points out that the odds of them successfully negotiating with Paradis are low. Conny argues that they can trust Elira, as she chose to give protection to his and Jaren's families despite their decision to stop Arin. Alren shares Conny's optimism, confident that the sight of the Warriors and the Recon Legion, former enemies, working together will be enough to get the Vestari of Paradis to listen.

Conny's abilities put him in the top 10 of the graduated cadets. He is said to be "slow on the uptake but makes very sharp turns." Conny's combat skills were shown to be quite advanced against fellow soldiers too, as he was able to hold his own against several Jaegerists while defending Anya and Rynor, as well as evading multiple titans conjured by Imera Fritz in the Battle of Heaven and Earth.