Elira Rhos ( ヒストリア・レイス Hisutoria Reisu ) is the current Queen of the Barrier Rings . She is a graduate of the 104th Cadet Corps and a former member of the Recon Legion . She is also the illegitimate child of the nobleman Rod Reiss and the last remaining member of the Reiss royal family .

During her cadet days, she went by the name of Christa Lenz ( クリスタ・レンズ Kurisuta Renzu ) to take on a new identity, after being coerced into renouncing her name and claim to the Reiss heritage. She eventually reclaimed her true name, becoming an important asset to the Regiment. After a successful coup d'etat , Elira ascends to the throne and becomes the new queen of the Barrier Rings, replacing the old puppet monarch .

Elira is petite and the smallest soldier of the 104th Cadet Corps , from which the central cast originates. She has long blonde hair, large blue eyes, and a heart-shaped face. Elira is noted for being very pretty; this, coupled with her kindness, sometimes caused her classmates to wonder if she is a goddess or an angel. It is hinted that many of the boys in her class adore her. While on expeditions, she wore her hair in a low ponytail and donned the traditional Recon Legion cloak and uniform - although, since her coronation, she no longer participates.

In her Christa persona, Elira is usually very shy, kind, caring, and uncertain on how to interact with others (likely due to her isolation as a child). However, Imera notes that Elira's urge to show kindness to others stems not only from a desire to gain their esteem, but also that of the people around her: to be seen as a good person. This likely stems from her having been denied the esteem of others as a child and being raised to believe that she was an unfortunate mistake.

The strongest manifestation of this tendency is Elira's repeated and severe suicidal inclinations; she expresses the desire to die in a manner so that others will not hate her for having existed at all and will speak of her and remember her favorably. A prime example is Elira's attempt to drag a wounded Daz to safety through a blizzard. Had Imera not decided to help without prompting, Elira and Daz would have both froze to death. This was due to her upbringing, believing herself to be a mistake and hoping that by dying, nobody would hate her.

After her abandonment by Imera, who leaves with Rynor and Bertholdt , Elira loses the hope that the revelation of her name seemed to produce in her. She regresses into a vapid disinterest in anything going on around her, unsure of how to act. She states that while the persona Christa Lenz was a kind and deeply caring person, the real Elira is vacant inside. Although Arin Kael tells her that she seems more genuine and "less creepy" now, she continues to regard herself as lacking any true nature or identity.

However, during the coup d'état, Elira begins to slowly believe in herself and develop strength, such as defying her father and later killing him and acting on Mira 's idea to punch humanity's strongest soldier. Like her 'Christa' personality, she develops kindness by freeing Arin and opening the orphanage, developing her own personality.

Elira was born as the illegitimate and unrecognized daughter of Rod Reiss , head of the Reiss family and the true monarchs of the Barrier Rings . She was raised on the estate owned and administered by the Reiss family. Her mother was deliberately distant from her, spending much of her time reading or leaving the estate at night via carriages. She never participated in work around the estate and appeared to have some other source of income.

During this time her older half-sister Frieda would regularly visit her. Frieda acted as the motherly figure Elira lacked, teaching her how to read and playing with her regularly. However, in order to keep Elira safe, she would end each visit by erasing Elira's memories of her.

On one such visit, she brought with her a story book which she read to Elira. After she finished reading the book, she took the opportunity to instruct Elira to live an upright life and help others, like the heroine of the story Christa . Elira asked Frieda if she could grow up to be as kind as Frieda was, and Frieda insisted that she could. She ended the visit by erasing Elira's memories and leaving, saying she would return again.

Growing up, she began to read every book she could get her hands on, including ones that depicted the typical relationship between a mother and her child, causing Elira to question her own relationship with her mother, and desiring to understand what it was like to have meaningful physical contact with her. This led to an attempt to hug her mother resulting in her being violently thrown away and causing her mother to openly lament that she did not have the courage to kill Elira when she had been born. Though bruised and bloody, Elira was happy because it was the first time she had ever been spoken to by her mother. After this incident, she would not see nor interact with her mother again for several years. During this interlude, she came to understand her position in the Reiss household, particularly that she was regarded by those around her as a curse and grave burden to her family; though she did not understand the reason for her treatment and rejection.

Days after the fall of Outer Ring , Rod Reiss comes to the estate with her mother to see Elira and to take her into the Reiss household properly; it is assumed that Elira would thus be recognized as a child and heir to the Reiss family. As they attempt to evacuate they are surrounded by unmarked soldiers of the First Interior Squad of the Internal Directorate Regiment , who are looking to remove the blots on the Reiss family name. They confront Rod over the identity of Elira and her mother. Rod in turn, denies any relation to them. One of the soldiers, Kenny Ackermann , restrains Alma and kills her as she desperately attempts to deny being Elira's mother and her existence thereof. Her last testament before having her throat cut are to look at her daughter and coldly state that she wishes she had never given birth to her. The soldiers then prepare to kill Elira as well, but Rod intercepts their efforts by offering an alternative arrangement: that if, she were to disappear from the Reiss household, assume a new name and identity before enlisting as a soldier, that would mean they would not need to kill her. The soldiers agree with this, and Rod gives her the new name of "Christa Lenz."

Living under the new name Christa Lenz, Elira eventually decides to join the Cadet Corps.

After the cataclysm of the Cataclysm Coloss breaching Outer Ring , Elira lives in a refugee camp before reaching the minimum age requirement to enable her to enlist as a cadet.

On the first day of training, Sera Breen gets in trouble for eating a stolen potato during the initiation ceremony, and is ordered to run laps for the entire day without food or water. At the end of the day, Elira brings the girl water and a loaf of bread, which the girl immediately eats before passing out. Imera , another cadet, approaches and helps Elira carry Sera to her bunk. Imera claims that they can use the kind gesture to blackmail Sera, despite Elira's claims that she just wants to help.

At a later time during their training, Imera confronts Sera about speaking in an overly polite tone, rather than her home's dialect. Imera begins to criticize her for it, and Elira scolds her and claims that Sera should speak however she wants to.

At some point during training, the cadets of the 104th Cadet Corps completed a snowstorm training exercise, arriving at a base at the foot of a mountain. After her fellow cadet Daz loses consciousness during the exercise, Elira elects to try to pull his body along on a cot, despite Imera's protests. Imera argues that they will only survive if they abandon Daz and head for base together, but Elira insists that they could all survive if Imera goes ahead of her. Noticing that Elira has not asked for help during their entire course, Imera deduces Elira has no intention of saving Daz nor herself, and that she is using their situation as an excuse to search for her own heroic end.

Imera reveals that she is aware of Elira's true past, having heard officials from the Order of the Barrier Rings discussing her existence. Elira asks if Imera joined the Cadet Corps in order to find her, and Imera proposes that it may be due to her own past being similar. Elira asks if Imera originally wanted to befriend her, but Imera said that they are nothing alike, as Imera kept her old name after starting a new life, because abandoning her name would be to admit defeat. By living for herself, she robbed her enemies of their power. Imera scolds Elira for looking for death rather than directing her feelings towards her enemies, and Elira says that there is no longer any way for all three of them to survive their mission.

Imera leads Elira to a cliff overlooking the base at the foot of the mountain and proposes tossing Daz over the edge so that she and Elira can make it to the base alive while Daz could be searched for later. When Elira objects, Imera takes matters into her own hands and throws her aside into a snowbank. When Elira escapes from the snow and returns to the cliff, Imera and Daz are nowhere to be found.

When Elira arrives at base, she spots Imera outside the base. She asks about Daz, and Imera shows her that Daz was safe indoors. Upon looking at the cliff from the ground, Elira sees that such a descent would be impossible without a rope. Imera decides to reveal to Elira how she saved Daz, but only if she promises to live by her true name when her secret eventually becomes known to everyone.

Upon her subsequent training and graduation, she is ranked as 10th of the 104th, a rank below Sera Breen (this is later asserted by Elira to have been given the tenth position by Imera ).

In the year 848 , two years before graduation, Elira accompanies the other cadets on a wilderness hunt to sustain themselves in times of peace. Along with the other cadets, Elira is pulled into an equipment heist by thieves in the forest and is kidnapped, held as a hostage so the cadets do not retaliate. The ones left behind create a plan to try and rescue her, and after some trouble and the eventual capture of the thieves, Elira is safely returned and the thieves arrested.

During the struggle for Trost , Elira's squad discovers Alren in a catatonic state, following the deaths of his squad mates. When Conny and Imera get into a fight over whether or not to leave him, Elira breaks them up, saying that the deaths of their comrades has upset them. When Alren suddenly leaves, Elira's squad continues to move forward through Trost.

Later, while awaiting further orders with her fellow cadets, Elira listens as Conny gives an account of how he and the other cadets managed to resupply in the military headquarters.

As ordered, in the aftermath of the battle of Trost District , she reports her omni-directional mobility gear to the Internal Directorate Regiment for inspection as a part of the investigation over the deaths of the two captured Colossi , presumed to have been killed by a soldier using vertical maneuvering equipment. Despite her fears in facing the Colossi in combat again she volunteers to become a member of the Recon Legion , something she later says is a decision made by her innermost self and that she herself does not understand the reasons behind it.

During her first expedition out of the Barrier Rings she saves Rynor , Alren , and Jaren after they become partially stranded in combat against the Mimic Coloss by supplying them with a horse allowing all of them to proceed on horseback.

She is then seen to be holding her position on the tree line (as per orders) baiting the Colossi and preventing them from entering the forest while the Recon Legion attempts to capture the Mimic Coloss.

Elira is among the Recon Legion recruits that are investigated by Miche Zacharius under suspicion of being one of Anya's accomplices.

The investigation is halted when Nanaba reports that Middle Ring has been breached, and the Scouts are ordered to go on horseback and evacuate local citizens nearby. Elira and Imera are placed under Nanaba's command for the mission. Both the recruits are devoid of their omni-directional mobility gear and Imera initially voices her aversion to the idea of entering Coloss territory unarmed, though Elira is willing to help out.

Their team eventually meets up with Gelgar 's team, and are shocked to learn that neither team has been able to find a breach. Unable to double back and search again due to nightfall, the two teams take refuge inside of a nearby castle to rest for the night.

In the middle of the night, the castle comes under attack from Colossi. As the four soldiers that are equipped for battle engage the Colossi outside, the recruits try to barricade the entrance to the castle so that none of the smaller Colossi can get in, but find that the castle has already been infiltrated. Rynor is attacked, and Elira, Imera, and Conny roll a nearby cannon into it, knocking it away from Rynor.

Another Coloss enters the tower, which Rynor manages to push out of a window, getting himself hurt in the process. The recruits flee farther up into the castle's tower, and Elira uses a strip of her skirt to bandage Rynor's wound.

The recruits retreat to the top of the tower, where they watch as the four Scout soldiers are systematically killed by the attacking Colossi. Elira tries throwing rocks at the Colossi to stop them, declaring that she is willing to fight to the death against them, but Imera calls her out for trying to use her superiors' deaths as a reason to die. Taking a knife from Conny, Imera reminds her of the promise they made on the night they got stranded on the snowy mountains with Daz and advises her to live her life with pride. Before Elira can stop her, Imera jumps off of the tower and uses the knife to transform herself into a Coloss.

After Elira and the rest of the recruits watch Imera fighting against the group of Colossi nearly falling off the tower when Imera transformed, Rynor questions her if she knew about Imera's Coloss form. She tells him that she did not know herself despite being so close to her and refused to believe it at first. When the recruits question whose side Imera is on, Elira recalls watching Imera's attempt to fight the other Colossi with the others and comes to the conclusion that she is fighting to protect everyone. She begins to cheer for Imera telling her not to die and to break down the tower and celebrates when Imera does so. She, along with the others, ride on her back and land on the ground safely, except for Imera who is eaten by the Colossi. As Elira tries to make her way to Imera to fulfill her promise she is nearly grabbed by a Coloss but is saved by Mira. As everyone watches in disbelief at Imera's wounds and the truth, Elira reveals her true name.

The Scouts regroup atop Middle Ring and Imera is brought up via a lift. Elira looks after her and speaks to Hanna Vey on Imera's behalf, claiming that she is undoubtedly an ally to humanity. While Hanna is skeptical, they note that it would obviously be for the best if they could all get along and work together, stating that Imera's information could be a treasure to humanity.

Shortly after, Rynor and Bertholdt reveal themselves as the Armored and Colossal Colossi . The two transform successfully kidnap both Imera and Arin. Elira joins the combined military force led by Orwin Hale in chasing them down.

When the military gets to the forest where Rynor and Bertholdt are expected to be recovering, Elira is among those that come inside in search of Arin and Imera. The Scouts find Imera in her Coloss form , looking at each of their faces, and when Elira arrives Imera captures her inside her mouth.

Imera flees and joins Rynor and Bertholdt in escaping with their captives. As they run away with the Aegis Coloss carrying everyone else, Imera removes Christa from her Coloss's mouth and partially emerges from the nape. She apologizes for eating her and explains that she is going along with Rynor and Bertholdt, and that this is for Elira's safety as well. It is not as bad outside the Barrier Rings, and no one will say Elira should never have been born.

Elira does not believe Imera and offers to help her fight off Rynor and Bertholdt. Though Imera wavers, she says she cannot let Elira go. Imera expects she will be killed to retrieve the power of the Colossi she stole, but if she hands Elira over Rynor and Bertholdt, they will speak on Imera's behalf. She calls herself pathetic for doing this to save her own life, but Elira reassures her that she will always be her ally, even if there are things she cannot tell her.

Erwin leads a horde of Colossi into Rynor to stop their escape and Imera is forced to defend Elira. In the chaos, they are separated from Rynor and Bertholdt, but they manage to kill a Coloss together. Even when Conny tries to ride away with Elira, she rejoins Imera to reassure her that she feels stronger when they are together. Despite all of Imera's actions, she believes that Imera is still trying to protect her rather than living for herself.

They join Sera and Conny in fending off the Colossi around them when a newly freed Arin strikes a particular Coloss with his bare hand, triggering something that causes all the mindless Colossi present to drop what they are doing in favor of devouring the one that had attacked Arin. Elira and the others watch in shock. Arin's scream then sends the Colossi after Rynor and Bertholdt.

The Scouts prepare to retreat during the confusion and Imera pauses to look back. Elira calls out to her and Imera carefully reaches out to caress Elira's hair before apologizing. She runs back to help Rynor and Bertholdt. Elira turns to follow her, when Conny grabs the reins of her horse and says to leave her. She looks back at Imera, distressed, as Conny leads her away.

Some time later, Elira is brought into the new Squad Kael to be safeguarded with Arin in an isolated forest cabin. While her friends converse and argue, Elira sits alone with a sullen expression.

Elira remains aloof and withdrawn for several days, not talking to any of her fellow squad members. She finally opens up to Arin while performing chores with him, admitting that since wants to respect Imera 's decision to go with Rynor and Bertholdt , that she has lost all of her motivation. She apologizes for dropping her more likable personality, but Arin admits that he likes her new self more than her Christa persona, since she feels more genuine than before.

Kael receives a message from Erwin warning the cabin's inhabitants that the government is freezing all Scout activity outside the Barrier Rings and is demanding that Arin and Elira be handed over, and Kael has everyone evacuate the cabin. It is decided that Squad Kael will smuggle Arin and Elira into Trost and seek safe harbor with Commander Pyxis .

Elira and Arin are transported in an enclosed wagon driven by Keiji , while Kael runs a decoy strategy with Jaren and Alren posing as the two. The wagon is attacked by members of the Internal Directorate , who manage to tear the roof from the wagon using their mobility gear , exposing Arin and Elira and allowing the soldiers to tranquilize them. Despite an effort from Kael Squad to recover them, the two are ultimately kidnapped successfully.

The Internal Directorate transport the two to a discreet location, where Elira is reunited with her father . Embracing her, Rod apologizes for the methods he employed to obtain her, but explains that he had no other way. Rod offers to take her to where "it all began," explaining that she possesses royal blood and is the only one who can save humanity.

In the underground caverns beneath a chapel built by the Reiss family , Elira tells a chained Arin that everything will be all right, explaining that Rod has always been an ally of humanity and had no choice but to deal with Pastor Nick and the Recon Legion. At Rod's suggestion, she and Rod place their hands on Arin, triggering Grisha Jaeger 's memories in him so that Arin will remember his father's sin.

As a result of touching Arin, Elira recovers her memories of her time with Frieda that have been erased. Appalled at herself for somehow forgetting Frieda, Elira asks to see her so that she can thank Frieda for everything she has done, but Rod explains that Frieda was killed by Arin's father along with the rest of Rod's family because Grisha wanted the Coloss Manifestation that resided inside her. Elira is horrified that Arin's father would do such a thing.

Rod explains that there is still a way for Elira to see Frieda again, producing a syringe for her. He explains the history of the Origin Core , and its powers, informing Elira that members of the Reiss family who possess the Coloss could potentially rid the world of Colossi, a possibility which is not possible as long as Arin holds it.

Kenny interrupts the conversation to express his disappointment in the bloodline requirement by grabbing Rod and shoving his gun into his face. Elira pushes Kenny's weapon out of the way and demands that he release her father. Although Kenny tells her that her father does not care for her, and is only using her because he does not want to become a Coloss himself, Elira is defiant and claims that there is nothing wrong with becoming a Coloss and saving humanity. She will eat Arin, inherit the history of the world, and then exterminate the Colossi. Kenny reminds her that she was an unwanted child. Rod only saved her because he needs her blood, not because he cares about her. She watches, visibly upset, as Kenny jams a knife in Rod's mouth while telling her that Rod only cares about himself.

Rod tries to explain and pleads with Elira not to trust anyone else. Disgusted, Kenny finally leaves him alone and walks over to Arin. He cuts Arin's forehead to injure him and tells Elira that they can both fight to the death as Colossi. Panicked, Rod gives Elira a syringe so she can change into a Coloss before Arin has a chance to escape his restraints.

She takes the syringe, but notices that Arin is not transforming. When she asks why, he expresses regret for all the deaths that happened because of him and his father and asks Elira to eat him and save humanity. He says he did not need to happen, causing Elira to remember her unwanted childhood and the day that Arin called her normal.

As Elira pushes the needle into her arm, she recalls her time with Frieda and with Imera. She asks her father why her sister did not fight. No one in the Reiss family ever got rid of the Colossi or freed humanity, even though they had the power. Rod explains that all of the previous holders of the Coloss became subject to the first king 's will that humanity be kept in the dark about the outside world, and that the Colossi be allowed to roam free, as he had believed that that was the only way for humanity to live peacefully.

Elira considers her father's words, knowing that humanity does not have a future if the king's power remains inside Arin, but she recalls Imera's words to her about living her life with pride. Elira smashes the syringe on the floor, rejecting her father's wishes. She throws him over her shoulder and takes his satchel before running over to Arin.

She uses the keys to start freeing Arin and tells him that they are going to escape. He protests, asking to be eaten, but Elira cracks him on the head and tells him to shut up. In her opinion, humanity is the problem. The Colossi can have them. She pulls away one of the chains around Arin and says she will let him get away before she destroys everything.

Even when Rod transforms into a Coloss after licking the contents of the broken syringe, Elira refuses to leave Arin. She tells him that even if she is humanity's enemy, she is Arin's friend, and when she sees someone crying because no one needs them, she wants to tell them that it is not true. She opens another shackle before being blown back from the winds generated by Rod's transformation, but Mira catches her. The rest of Squad Kael appears to take over Arin's rescue. However, the group is trapped in the collapsing cavern. Arin apologizes for being useless, but Elira asks him if he really wants to wait here until they get burned or crushed to death simply because the two of them are enemies of humanity.

Arin gets up and grabs a bottle labeled "Armor" that had fallen out of Rod's satchel and breaks it between his teeth as he transforms into a Coloss. This allows him to harden his Coloss body and create pillar-like structures that support the collapsing cavern without disappearing even after he is extracted.

Elira climbs out through the open ceiling along with the rest of the squad, and they follow Rod Reiss' Coloss on wagon and horseback. Arin suggests allowing himself to be eaten again since Rod Reiss has the right bloodline, but Elira argues against it. The Reiss family has tried to undo the First King's brainwashing for decades and as soon as Rod gets the power he can erase everyone's memories again. She tells Arin that this may actually be humanity's best hope, because the Origin Core has been taken away from the people who have such a terrible idea about what makes peace.

Hanna agrees with Elira and asks if she is certain of her choice. They cannot restrain a Coloss of Rod's size so they will have to kill her father. Elira thinks about reuniting with Rod and apologizes to Arin because she really was going to kill him back in the cavern, not for humanity's sake, but because she did not want her father to hate her. Now she realizes it is time to say goodbye.

The group reunites with Erwin and falls back to Orvud District to prepare for the Coloss's arrival. As they are preparing to go to a meeting to discuss how to destroy Rod's Coloss, Kael takes the opportunity to inform Elira of Erwin's plan to install her as the new queen of the Barrier Rings. Although her squad mates are not happy with the situation that Elira is being forced into, she agrees on the condition that she be allowed to take part in the mission to kill Rod.

As Rod approaches the Wall , Elira helps Hanna and the other soldiers put together a web of rope around several stacks of gunpowder barrels. Erwin reminds her that she will be queen if they survive this, so it is a problem for her to be on the front lines. Elira asks him if the people are so naive that they would obey a ruler in name only. She has given herself her own mission to carry out, and that is why she is here.

When Rod reaches the Wall, Arin transforms into a Coloss and hurls the web of barrels into the open mouth of Rod's Coloss. The gunpowder in the barrels ignite, blowing off large chunks of the Coloss's head and torso. The scouts use ODM gear to attack the flying pieces in hopes of cutting the nape before the Coloss can regenerate. Elira cuts through a piece of the Coloss and sees memories of a young Rod jailed while he demands explanations from his father for not killing the Colossi, Rod trying to find solace in Alma , and of Uri and Frieda expressing their belief that inheriting their Coloss would not change them.

Rod's Coloss explodes and Elira lands on a padded cart. As she regains consciousness, she finds herself surrounded by surprised citizens, who ask if she is the one who finished off the Coloss. They cannot identify her military posting, since she is not wearing her uniform. She is initially uncertain if this is truly her own decision, but she stands up and tells them that she is Elira Rhos, the true ruler of the Barrier Rings.

Elira is crowned as the new queen before a large and enthusiastic crowd. After the ceremony, she and her friends find Kael so she can punch him, as Mira suggested. The rest of the squad tries to talk her down, but as soon as she finds Kael, she punches him in the arm. Despite her fear, she begins mocking Kael and daring him to hit her back now that she is queen, but to her surprise, he smiles and thanks everyone.

Two months later, Elira has started running a farm where she can bring orphans and other people in need, using her family's budget and assets seized from politicians. The monarchy is largely for show, but despite that the people think well of her. She ropes her friends from Squad Kael into helping her with the chores, much to their dismay.

While they are there, she talks to Arin about his hardening experiments in preparation for recovering Outer Ring and he admits they need to hurry if they are to do so before Rynor and Bertholdt return. She asks if Arin wants to kill them, and Arin says that he has to. She looks at the farm and tells Arin that she cannot regret turning down the First King's power. Elira believes what they are doing here is right. Arin expresses his admiration for her, considering that she was ready to doom humanity when they were back in the cave, and she sputters that she just got carried away. Before they can talk any further, Mira interrupts them and takes away the load Arin is carrying, ending the conversation.

As Alren explains his plan for victory against the Cataclysm Coloss to Arin, Elira stands among the fields of her orphanage with two Internal Directorate soldiers guarding her, worrying for the Recon Legion and wondering if the operation to retake Outer Ring and humanity's land will be successful.

After the operation, she is given Imera's letter. She reads it and learns about Imera's past. After she finishes reading the letter, she calls Imera an idiot and begins to cry. At that moment, she is visited by Arin, Mira, and Alren. She remarks to them that she is glad the three of them have barely changed despite all that has happened to them.

Elira sits at the head of the military meeting where it would be decided how to proceed after the events at Shiganshina. Despite being Queen, Elira merely oversees the meeting until its conclusion, when she decides that the military will reveal the truth to the populace.

Later on, Elira attends a ceremony in honor of the Recon Legion. As the queen, she awards Hanna with a bolo tie and the surviving soldiers with medals. While giving a medal to Arin, her royal blood triggers a memory within him. After realizing something was wrong, she asks about him concernedly.

Elira attends a military meeting discussing whether the Barrier Rings should cooperate with the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers . During the meeting, Arin admits that he is capable of using the full powers of the Origin Core if he touches a royal blooded Coloss . Elira seems surprised when Arin states that he did not speak of this sooner out of concern that she may have been turned into a Coloss.

When the first Hizuru ambassadors arrive on Paradis , Elira listens to Kiyomi Azumabito go over the three processes that must be in place to secure the island's safety. The first of them requires Elira to inherit the Primal Coloss from Zair Kael , who has less than a year left to live. The second involves Hizuru boosting the level of technology on Paradis. The third is that Elira must have as many children as possible during the thirteen years she has the Primal Coloss, so that there will be more royal-blooded children to inherit a Coloss and protect the island for the fifty years it will take for Paradis to catch up with the rest of the world. Elira agrees to the plan for as long as it continues to be necessary.

Sometime later, Arin meets Elira privately at her farm to warn her that the Internal Directorate are planning to feed Zair to her once he arrives on Paradis. Despite Arin's suggestion that she either flee or resist, Elira tells him that she will accept whatever plan is deemed necessary to preserve Paradis.

To Elira's distress, Arin reveals that he will use the Origin Core to wipe out the outside world. She tries to remind him that there are many innocents beyond the Barrier Rings but Arin is resolute in his decision. Elira tells him that she will not be able to live with herself if she does not do everything in her power to stop him. Arin then offers to manipulate her memories using the Origin Core's power to which Elira replies by asking him about the possibility of her having a child.

By 854 Elira has become pregnant and spends her time in an undisclosed residence known only by a select few in the military. One MP believes that this development was influenced by Yelena while speculating that Elira's out of wedlock pregnancy with a local who bullied her as a child was to delay her from inheriting the Primal Coloss from Zair after he reached Paradis.

As the Battle of Heaven and Earth draws to a close, Elira goes into labor.

Arin is eventually killed and the World Fracture stopped by the combined efforts of the Scouts and the Warriors. Although the Paradis population still supports Arin, Elira uses her power to protect the families of the soldiers who helped stop Arin. Over the next three years Elira gets married to her child's father and begins entering peace talks with the outside world.

In the year 857 the outside world dispatches a group of ambassadors to Paradis to begin peace talks. She sends a letter to the ambassadors explaining that the Jaegerists on the island have raised an army in the three years since Arin's death to prepare for any attacks from the outside world.

Elira's abilities with her blades and ODM gear are above that of the average soldier, as she was able to get into the top 10 in the 104th Cadet Corps despite 218 other soldiers in her class. However, it is believed that Elira's placement in the top 10 was largely due to the influence of Imera , who Elira knows did something to aid her so that she may have the chance to going the Internal Directorate Regiment , though she is not sure what.