The Ennead Colossi ( 九つの巨人 Kokonotsu no Kyojin ) were nine Coloss powers that had been passed down through the Eldian people for nearly 2,000 years after Imera Fritz 's death, each of them having their own name. They were called the Origin Core , the Cataclysm Coloss , the Mimic Coloss , the Primal Coloss , the Aegis Coloss , the Vanguard Coloss , the Razor Coloss , the Burden Coloss and the Forge Coloss .

Around 2,000 years ago, Imera Fritz obtained the Coloss Manifestation and became the first Coloss , the Origin Core . Thirteen years later, she died and her power was then divided between her three daughters who had been forced by their father to consume her remains. Eventually, the powers would split further into the individual Ennead Colossi, which were subsequently inherited by nine of her descendants . The Ennead Colossi soon destroyed the ancient nation of Dominion of Marn and conquered the entire continent to build the Eldian Empire .

When the 145th King inherited the Origin Core, he abandoned his duties of balancing the continent's powers, leading to the Great Coloss War between the other eight Colossi. The King fled and moved many Vestari onto Isle of Vestara , where he erected three, central Barrier Rings . He erased the memories of the Vestari on the island, except for a few minority races which were immune. Dominion of Marn seized control over seven of the Ennead Colossi during the war, with only the Founding and Attack Colossi escaping their grasp. They distributed the Colossi they had among Vestari loyal to them known as warriors .

The Reiss family would later lose their Coloss to Grisha Jaeger ; after Grisha's Vanguard Coloss ate Frieda Reiss 's Origin Core, the two Colossi mixed into one. This resulted in the number of Colossi being reduced from nine to eight. The number was reduced again years later when Arin Kael 's Vanguard Coloss consumed Lara Tybur 's Forge Coloss, bringing the number of Colossi down to seven.

The heights of the Ennead Colossi varied greatly: the Cart and Jaw Colossi were small at 4 and 5 m, respectively, and the Cataclysm Coloss was enormous at 60 m. The rest hovered around 15 m, with the Founding and Mimic Coloss being slightly smaller at 13 and 14 m, respectively; the Primal Coloss being slightly larger at 17 m; and the Armored and Vanguard Coloss being exactly 15 m. The Forge Coloss was also around 15 m.

It did not matter what the height of the Feral Coloss was before inheriting the power of the Colossi . For instance, Arin's Feral Coloss was originally 4 m, but grew to 15 m after inheriting the Vanguard Coloss, and Alren's Feral Coloss form grew from barely being tall enough to look over the buildings in Shiganshina District to the immense 60 m size of the Cataclysm Coloss. The opposite was also known to occur; the Feral Coloss form of Falo Gryss was approximately the same size of the Aegis Coloss, but shrank down to 5 m upon receiving the power of the Razor Coloss.

If an inheritor possessed two or more Coloss powers, it appeared that one of them would take precedence over the others. Arin Kael had both the 13 m Origin Core and the 15 m Vanguard Coloss , but his Coloss form was 15 m. Even once Arin took the Forge Coloss, and it merged with his Vanguard Coloss, his Coloss's form did not increase in height or take on any other visual aspects of the War Hammer.

Age did not affect the appearance of the Ennead Colossi. The Warriors ' Coloss forms remained constant through their childhood and into early adulthood. The only thing that may have changed is the hair, for example, Rynor Feld 's Aegis Coloss 's hair changed as he aged. This was also shown by how, as Arin's hair grew longer, the hair of his Vanguard Coloss also grew longer.

Some of the Ennead Colossi could talk while others cannot. Those who could not talk had mouths that physically prevented them from proper speech, such as Arin's. The ones that could talk include Imera , Zair , Pixa Fend , and Lara . Speech was not defined by the Ennead Colossi, as Imera could talk in her Coloss form while Porko Galen could not, despite them both having the Razor Coloss . The fact that even some Abnormal Pure Colossi were capable of speech implies that the ability to speak was completely arbitrary.

Inheritors of the Ennead Colossi did not adopt the appearance of the previous owners' Colossi, as both Imera and Frieda's Colossi' appearances were vastly different from Marcel Galliard and Uri Reiss 's Colossi, respectively. An inheritor's Coloss form did experience certain changes depending on which of the Nine was received, as Imera's Coloss form gained sharp claws and teeth after acquiring the Razor Coloss and Alren's Coloss form became much larger after acquiring the Cataclysm Coloss. Arin's Feral Coloss form was much smaller than his Vanguard Coloss form, and both Imera's Coloss form and Frieda's Coloss form were noticeably more emaciated than their Coloss bodies after inheriting their Colossi.

Some Colossi had been shown to possess the ability to harden. The Aegis Coloss was particularly skilled at this, being able to naturally harden its entire body. It could also control the areas of hardening, removing armor for additional mobility. The Razor Coloss had naturally hard teeth and claws; this hardening was much stronger than normal hardening, with its claws and teeth being able to even pierce the crystalline levels of hardening. The Mimic Coloss was also capable of hardening. Anya was able to selectively harden regions of her Coloss and even create a protective layer around her human body. The Forge Coloss took it a step further and could make structures and even weapons out of hardening. The Vanguard Coloss did not have this as an innate ability, but it could still be gained through specialized serums, such as the case with Arin. Zair's Primal Coloss could also harden parts of itself.