Falo Gryss ( ファルコ・グライス Faruko Guraisu ) is an Eldian associated with the Warriors and Rynor Feld . He is the younger brother of Colvin Gryss . Originally one of the main candidates to inherit the power of the Aegis Coloss , Falo possesses the Razor Coloss , having inadvertently inherited it from Porko Galen after being turned into a Feral Coloss by Zair Kael .

Falo Gryss is a short boy of small build. He has short, unkempt blond hair and large hazel eyes. He is seen wearing a military uniform consisting of a tan jacket and pants, supply packs on the waist, suspender straps, a hard hat with a stripe around it, and tall combat boots. Falo also wears a yellow armband around his left arm, signifying his status as an Eldian.

Falo's Feral Coloss form was rather tall and lanky, having a long neck and no distinguishable lower jaw. Its mouth was very rounded, with its upper jaw connecting with the base of its nose and sharp teeth running along the bottom almost as if it was on a hinge. His Coloss form was also seen with a prominent angry scowl.

As the Razor Coloss, Falo's Coloss form shrunk to 5m tall and was much more proportionate and muscular, like some of the previous inheritors of the Razor Coloss. His Coloss had two sets of jaws, with the outer one being the hardened jaw similar to the previous Jaw Colossi', and the inner one having a human-like mouth and teeth. The outer jaw could bite through harder objects, including hardened Coloss skin.

One interesting observation is that Falo's Razor Coloss had taken on many avian characteristics, with his outer jaw forming a crude beak and his hardened arms and legs resembling talons found in birds of prey, whilst also being mostly covered in fur.

Falo is physically not made to be a man of war and does not excel in the battlefield or at asserting himself. He finds himself wounded and delirious under enemy fire, only to be saved by his brother, and struggles to voice his concerns for his friend Gara Feld when she proposes a solo attack plan against the armored train. However, Falo is by no means a coward. When Gara is under fire, he leaps from their hiding place to rush to her aid and protect her, risking his life in the process.

Falo has proven to be a very merciful and compassionate person, as shown when he brought in an injured enemy soldier in order to cure him in the trench. and taking care of a war veteran in the homeland. He is also very polite and respectful towards his seniors, referring to them by their title instead of their names; for instance, he addresses Rynor as either Mr. Braun or Deputy Chief Braun.

After conversing with both Rynor and Arin Kael , he gains a greater degree of confidence; this allows him to assert himself better and speak his mind, even to someone as forceful as Gara, whom he also has a crush on. Furthermore, his boosted self-esteem helps him perform better in training. Despite this, Falo remains relatively calm and humble in the face of praise, deeming the extolment heaped upon him by his fellow Warrior candidates as embarrassing and "not a big deal", as well as attributing his success to Arin motivating him.

He is a very empathetic individual. While upset due to Arin revealing himself as an enemy after manipulating him, Falo understood that he and the Recon Legion attacked Liberio because Dominion of Marn invaded Isle of Vestara first, and remembered his words of how the people inside and beyond the Barrier Rings are the same. Furthermore, despite his youth and kind disposition, he is able to distance himself emotionally in a situation and properly prioritize. Almost immediately after finding out that "Kruger" was actually Arin, the current holder of the Origin Core , and had been tricked by him, he realized the opportunity it presented for Dominion of Marn.

Falo is seen to be a quick thinker and good at improvisation. For instance, after encountering the Braus family of Sera Breen , and he rapidly created a convincing alibi for both himself and Gara explaining why they were supposedly in the woods by themselves. Later, when he and Gara were trying to contact Nicolo in private, he also made a convincing excuse for him and Gara to leave the Braus family. He also does not appear to be a vengeful person, as despite Conny abusing his trust to try and feed him to his mother and holding a blade to his neck, Falo never seems to hold a grudge against him for this and works alongside him.

Falo and his fellow Warrior Candidates participate in the Marleyan attack on Fort Slava . During the fighting Falo is wounded and his brother Colvin is forced to carry him back to safety in one of Dominion of Marn's trenches. Upon their return, their fellow candidates tend to Falo's wounds, as Gara Feld re-explains their objective to him. Uran bandages Falo's head but pulls it too tight when he begins to panic at the thought of Dominion of Marn's military failing. Falo asks why they are on the front lines as candidates and Gara explains that it is so they can be evaluated by Commander Magath for their capabilities as successors to the Aegis Coloss power.

When Gara offers to take out the enemies' anti-Coloss artillery solo, Falo shows serious concern for her safety and fears that she will be hurt. He watches her execute her plan of attack and once Gara is successful in derailing the train, she begins to flee only to be shot at by a surviving gunman. Falo jumps out of the trench in an attempt to save her and both youths are saved from the gunfire by Porko Galen , who shields them with his Coloss .

After returning to the trench, Falo brings a wounded enemy soldier in order to treat his wounds. Although Uran helps him, Koslow and Gara mock him, stating that he is a weird person and that there is no way he will earn the power of the Aegis Coloss by fighting like that. The man begins speaking and Falo asks Uran to translate, only to be crestfallen to hear that the man is insulting them. After tending to their wounded, the cadets watch as Zair Kael 's Pure Colossi attack Fort Slava.

After the battle, Falo is resting in the docks with his friends. They all seem worried, talking about how Colossi may no longer be the main force of the world. Falo tries to reassure Gara, telling her that Rynor has survived losing several limbs and even his head. After they see traumatized war prisoners and Uran gets angry because of the harm done on the Eldian reputation, Rynor arrives and is coldly saluted by Falo. After Falo suggests Rynor should rest, Gara angrily replies that he should be the one resting.

While the Eldian unit is returning to Liberio via train, Rynor tries to make small talk with Falo. Falo bitterly reminds Rynor that he only has two years left before dying and, if Gara inherits the Aegis Coloss she will only live to be twenty-seven. Rynor threatens to tell their superiors Falo has been badmouthing the Warrior program and Falo, terrified, swears his loyalty to Dominion of Marn and claims it is an honor to inherit the power of the Colossi. At Rynor's coaxing, Falo claims that he wants to inherit the Aegis Coloss. In response, Rynor begs Falo to inherit the Coloss and save Gara, leaving Falo bewildered.

Upon arriving in Liberio, Falo sees Galliard helping a hungover Colvin out of the train and complains about his brother's drinking. As Gara is congratulated for her accomplishments Falo reflects on his conversation with Rynor, wondering if the man shares his desire to free Vestari from being used as tools of war. As the unit walks to Liberio's internment zone, Falo resolves to work harder to earn Rynor's Coloss.

After entering the internment zone Falo sees a group of injured Vestari being led away by Koslow . When asked, Koslow explains to Falo that that the soldiers have no family and will be treated at the hospital. Koslow begins terrorizing the traumatized Vestari and Falo decides to help calm down the soldiers. He tries calming the soldiers down and helps one of the soldiers fix his armband so that it will be on his correct arm.

After training, his lack of natural skill causes him to cry out in frustration, unwittingly stopping Rynor from committing suicide. He absent-mindedly walks towards a nearby hospital, where the soldier whose armband he adjusted, invites the boy to sit down next to him. The man confides to Falo that he actually does not suffer from mental trauma like the other patients. He asks if Falo will rat him out to the staff, which he denies. The man asks Falo about his injuries and training, and Falo shares his fears that he will not be able to inherit the Aegis Coloss. The man points out that it is good Falo will not have to die young from the Curse of Imera but Falo insists that he wants to save Gara from the curse, lamenting that he likely will not be able to.

Falo is later asked by the man, Kruger , to deliver a letter for him, claiming that the letter is to inform his family that he was safe and sound inside the internment zone. Falo eagerly agrees.

Through hard work, Falo is able to outperform Gara in a race for the first time, earning commendation from Uran, Zofia and two officials at the Internment Zone gate. Gara expresses her frustration with Falo's determination to beat her, pointing out that his family will be made honorary Marleyans either way, once Falo's older brother inherits the Primal Coloss. Falo admits that he is trying to outrank Gara for her sake, which confuses her and makes Falo run off in embarrassment.

He visits Kruger in the hospital, telling him about his recent success and expressing gratitude for motivating him. In return, Kruger thanks him for delivering his letters for the last month, and informs the boy that he will be going back home after the festival. Falo leaves when he notices a doctor approaching their bench.

On the eve of the festival, Falo and the other candidates are assigned to serve the visiting ambassadors from the countries allied with Dominion of Marn. He observes Uran accidentally spill some wine on one of the ambassadors and goes over to check on him.

The next day, Falo and the other Warrior candidates enjoy the festival with Rynor. Shortly before the announcement, Falo encounters Kruger again; Kruger mentions to Falo that he was friends with Rynor and asks Falo to find him, wishing to see Rynor before he leaves back home. Falo tracks down Rynor and finds him seated with the other Warriors. He calls to Rynor and leads him to Kruger's location.

Sensing the irregularity of the situation and Rynor's shocked expression, Falo originally puts the tension down to the two men not having seen each other in years; however, he quickly realizes something is wrong after seeing Rynor fearfully obey Kruger's order to sit. Falo goes to see himself out but he is instructed to stay by both Kruger and Rynor. Falo stays and listens to Lord Tybur's presentation from inside the cellar.

As he listens to the play, Falo realizes that Kruger could only be an old friend of Rynor's if they had met on Paradis and is horrified to learn that he has been in contact with Arin Kael . Arin begins regenerating his missing leg and Falo accuses Arin of tricking him, causing Arin to apologize for the deceit. Falo realizes that the letters he had delivered made him complicit, and demands to know where they went. When Arin tells him they were for his comrades stationed in Dominion of Marn, Falo falls to the floor in guilt.

As Arin offers his hand to help Rynor stand, Falo begins to process everything he just heard when he sees Rynor quickly turn towards him. As Arin transforms into the Vanguard Coloss, Falo is grabbed by Rynor to try and save him by absorbing the resulting blast of energy. Thanks to Rynor's partial transformation into the Aegis Coloss, Falo emerges unscathed from the ruins of the building. He looks around in horror at the fighting and destruction around him and notices Arin's Vanguard Coloss trapped inside the web formed by the Forge Coloss. He is still in disbelief that Arin deceived him and then wonders how he managed to survive.

Remembering that Rynor bit his hand to transform, Falo turns around and searches for Rynor in the incomplete body of his Coloss. He finds Rynor unconscious and apologizes for leading him into a trap. Falo wonders why Rynor has not recovered from the blast, but then recalls his behavior before transforming and realizes why Rynor has not begun to heal: someone with the Coloss Manifestation needs to have a strong will to live in order to regenerate quickly and Rynor has seemingly lost his. Before leaving to go find help, Falo reassures Rynor that he and Gara are still his allies.

Magath finds Falo and demands to know what he is doing and if he is hurt. Falo tells him that Rynor is stuck in the ground and it is all his fault. Meanwhile, Gara arrives with a rifle. In the distance they see an enormous explosion coming from the port, after Magath says that it is the Cataclysm Coloss's transformation, they try to run only to be knocked down by the shock wave.

Zair is seemingly killed by Kael Acken and shortly afterwards Pixa 's Burden Coloss tumbles off a nearby roof and crashes to the street behind Falo, Gara, and Magath. As Jaren Kirel gets ready to deliver the finishing blow to Pixa, Falo rushes to her side and begs him not to shoot. Despite Falo's pleas, Jaren shoots a Thunder Spear at the Burden Coloss but a burst of steam released from the Coloss's wound hits him, partially hitting Falo as well, and the spear explodes on the ground instead. A severely injured Pixa emerges from the Burden Coloss into Falo's arms. Magath and Marleyan soldiers fend off the Scouts while Falo and Gara carry Pixa to shelter.

Taking refuge inside a building, Falo and Gara are astonished by the state Pixa has been left in. Falo observes that her injuries are so serious that her body is not repairing itself fast enough. Gara asks Falo about Rynor, and Falo responds that he does not know, as he was below the building behind the stage during Arin's attack, and he thinks that they should not disturb him. Gara is shocked at Falo's words, reminding him that Uran, Zofia, and many others have been killed by Arin.

The children soon witness the Vanguard Coloss defeating and trying to bite through the nape of the Razor Coloss, which prompts them to yell desperately for Rynor to save him. Their screams are successful as Rynor surfaces in an un-armored Coloss form and manages to take Galliard away from Arin, although he is knocked down by him. As Arin leaves the battle scene with Mira, Gara begins pursuing them and Falo tries to stop her.

Falo catches up with Gara and tells her that going after them now would only get her killed like Zofia and Uran. Gara explains that despite how they are treated in the internment zone, it is still their home and is incredulous as to why Falo would not want them to fight back. Falo recalls Arin and Rynor's discussion and says that they were only responding to the initial attack done by Rynor and the other Dominion of Marn Warriors four years ago. This does not convince Gara and she picks up her rifle again. As Gara tells Falo to inform her family that she fought to the end, she prepares to fly up to the escaping airship using the equipment from a dead Scout. After remembering Rynor's plea for him to save Gara, Falo grabs on at the last minute and goes with her.

Entering the airship, Falo spots Gara shooting one of the soldiers. As she fires again, Falo knocks Gara aside and narrowly saves her from getting shot by another soldier. Falo tries to quiet Gara down as she proclaims they are still fighting and that the Isle of Vestara leaders will pay for attacking them. The two are taken away from the soldiers and are stunned to see that Zair, who was thought to be dead by Dominion of Marn, is still alive and was one of the coordinators behind the attack on the internment zone.

After arriving at Isle of Vestara, Gara and Falo are put into a prison cell.

Once imprisoned, Gara begins having a seizure in their cell; Falo tries to help her and the guard enters the cell to check. However, Gara had been faking it and beats the guard in the face with a brick hidden within her clothes. Despite Falo's protests, she hits the guard again and forces Falo to help her hide him. Gara flees the prison and Falo, unsure of what to do, follows her.

After running all night, both of them stop at a stream for water and to rest. He notices that Gara still has her armband on and tells her to take it off before someone sees them. As Gara refuses, Falo forcibly takes it off and gets thrown to the ground. He is incredulous as to why Gara is acting this way and claims she has gone crazy. Just then, a girl named Kaya comes by and asks what they are doing. As the girl invites them to come with her to her house nearby, Falo spots Gara discreetly picking up a rock to presumably attack her; he then looks at Gara and takes it away as they proceed to follow her.

Falo and Gara arrive at the house and Kaya tells them to wait. Gara contemplates taking one of the horses, though Falo advises they stay for a few days. Heading inside, Falo tells Gara that he will handle the talking. He introduces himself and Gara as "Ben" and "Mia" and says that they are siblings who ran away from home. As they have breakfast, Falo sees Gara swat away Lisa Braus's hand; he quickly apologizes for Gara's behavior and coaxes her to eat.

Later that day, Falo is working with Gara in the stables. He reiterates that they should stay where they are, expressing confidence that either Colvin or Rynor will come for them. He goes with Gara to have lunch outside and learns they are staying at an orphanage for children who lost their parents during the last four years. As Falo and Gara argue, they are surprised when Kaya mentions that she knows they are from Dominion of Marn; Falo tries to come up with an excuse when he sees Gara inch closer to a pitchfork.

She tries to stab Kaya with it, but Falo wrestles it away. They are led to Kaya's old village and learn that everyone either ran away or was eaten by the Coloss. Falo is horrified and eventually confesses that it was part of an experiment four years ago and apologizes for Kaya's mother getting killed. Gara berates Falo for revealing that to her, but he ignores it. He asks how Kaya managed to survive, and is stunned to hear that a girl brought over an axe to fight the Coloss, giving her enough time to get away.

Later on, Falo goes with Gara and the Braus family to the restaurant where Nicolo is working. When dinner is served, Falo is stunned by how high the quality of food is and how he has tasted nothing like it before in his life. He makes up an excuse to leave the table and Gara goes with him to find Nicolo. They discover him in the basement and reveal their true identities as Marleyan Warrior candidates. Falo notices the fear and horror in Nicolo's face when Gara reveals she killed Sera and tries to get Gara's attention. As Nicolo attacks her, Falo dives in front and gets knocked unconscious after being struck by a wine bottle. The unconscious Falo is brought by Nicolo into the room as the latter reveals Falo's role in Sera's death. After the situation is cleared up, Nicolo tells Hanna Vey to wash out Falo's mouth before revealing the wine bottle was one of many containing Zair's spinal fluid.

Shortly after, Conny and Hanna begin to rinse Falo's mouth with water as Nicolo reveals more information about Zair's spinal fluid. Falo is then taken to a separate room to bathe but is interrupted when the Jaegerists arrive.

Falo later regains consciousness, and while being taken to Shiganshina by the Jaegerists, he experiences a sudden shot of electricity run through him as a result of Zair's scream from the Forest of Giant Trees. After arriving in Shiganshina Falo is separated from the rest of the group from the restaurant and imprisoned with other Vestari who have consumed Zair's spinal fluid.

Soon, the prisoners are released by the Scouts to help fight off Dominion of Marn. As he enters the battlefield, Falo notices his brother and Gara nearby and Nile discretely delivers him, ordering them to get out of harm's way.

As Falo takes refuge in a house with Gara and Colvin, Falo reveals his unwitting role in the attack on Liberio to them, lamenting that Uran and Zofia died because of him. He also reveals his feelings to Gara, admitting that he joined the Warrior program to give her the chance at living a long and happy life with him. Falo remains in low spirits over his fate but agrees with Colvin that there is a chance Zair might not transform him and the others if he is made aware that Falo ingested some of the spinal fluid.

Falo and Colvin manage to find Zair at the edge of Shiganshina and Colvin begs Zair not to scream, informing him of Falo's predicament. Gara urges him to flee out of Zair's range with her but Falo tells her to stay back. Although Zair expresses remorse for Falo's situation, the news does not stop him from screaming. Falo tries to shove his brother aside but Colvin refuses to let go, proclaiming he will always be with Falo.

As he transforms into a Coloss, Falo is immediately ordered by Zair to kill Rynor and charges towards his commanding officer. Since Rynor is preoccupied with trying to subdue Arin, Falo's Feral Coloss quickly gets the upper hand and begins to bite through the armor covering Rynor's nape. Before he can finish, Falo notices a severely injured Galliard nearby stumbling out of his Coloss and devours him instead, becoming the new inheritor of the Razor Coloss.

Falo's unconscious body is retrieved from his Coloss by Jaren Kirel . After restraining Falo, Jaren suggests feeding him to one of the newly-transformed Pure Colossi , but Conny Springer is adamant that his mother should be allowed to devour Falo. An argument breaks out which results in Conny kidnapping Falo and fleeing with him.

Falo wakes up on route to Ragako with no memory of any of the events immediately preceding his transformation. Conny claims to have found him unconscious in Shiganshina and saved him. He then says he will be taking Falo to a hospital which will help with his memory loss and although Falo is grateful, he is left ill-at-ease by a feeling that he has met Conny before. The two stop to rest overnight and Falo overhears Conny talking to himself about Sera.

When they arrive at Ragako, Falo reveals that he knows where they are and that he overheard Conny talking during the night. Conny states that he does not want revenge for Sera's death and shows Falo an immobilized Coloss in the village. Conny tells Falo that he wants him to help him brush the Coloss's teeth and Falo agrees. Before they can start, they are interrupted by the arrival of Gara and Alren.

Falo is stunned to realize that he has inherited the Razor Coloss and does not resist as Conny begins trying to forcibly feed him to the Coloss. He is only saved by Alren, who tries to feed himself to the Coloss, and Conny is forced to save him. After being rescued from the Coloss, Falo learns of his brother's death and mourns for him.

The four return to Shiganshina, where they run into Anya Levar while eating. After the reunion, Falo and the rest of the group work with Jaren, Mira, and Pixa to escape the Jaegerists in Shiganshina. While leaving, they stop to pick up Rynor. Falo then stays back while the Warriors and Scouts infiltrate the Jaegerists holed up at the Paradis docks.

As Pixa is using her Coloss form to transport Falo and the other noncombatants to a boat, Falo sees Rynor and Anya being overwhelmed and insists that he help them. Pixa tries to talk him down but Falo, feeling guilty about Galliard's death, states that if Porko would have been in his position, he would have leaped into the battle. He ignores Pixa's warning and runs into the fray. Using a nail he found at the harbor to cut his hand, Falo transforms into his Razor Coloss form for the first time, to Gara's shock as she turns around and sees a bright flash.

Falo and Pixa are able to easily decimate the remaining Jaegerists, but as soon as they are defeated, Falo quickly begins losing control of his Coloss. Unable to recognize his allies, Falo begins attacking the Scouts and Pixa who tried to calm him down but to no avail as he almost completely bites through her Coloss's nape. She is forced to hold him down while Magath cuts him out of his Coloss's nape using a blade from the vertical maneuvering equipment. Magath then carries Falo's unconscious body to the boat, leaving him with Onyankopon. Afterward, Gara and Pixa look after an unconscious Falo resting on the boat.

Eventually, Falo awakens and is greatly distraught to hear that the Wall Colossi have reached Dominion of Marn and have already destroyed Liberio; he later is locked inside the infirmary with Gara, and both beg Anya to let them out.

After leaving Odiha, Falo and Gara confront Anya in order to question her about the Mimic Coloss's ability to easily inherit traits from other Colossi. Falo then reveals to her that he likely received a memory of a previous Primal Coloss who was capable of flight and theorizes that he could do the same due to the unique appearance of his Coloss which is presumably because he ingested Zair's spinal fluid. Kiyomi admits she is fine with Falo's Coloss transformation sinking the ship.

Using his Coloss, Falo flies to Fort Salta with Gara and Anya. The three arrive just in time to save Mira, Rynor, Jaren, Conny and Kael from being devoured by an army of Colossi. As Falo circles around to return his passengers to Arin's Coloss, Rynor reminds Falo of his promise to keep Gara safe. As he gets closer to Arin, Falo is forced to dodge projectiles launched by War Hammer Colossi generated on Arin's back. He drops Jaren and Rynor off near Arin's nape to continue the attempts to detonate Pixa's explosives and drops Mira, Anya, and Conny off near Arin's tailbone to try to rescue Alren.

After the group manages to detonate Arin's nape, Falo collects them again and flies them to a safe distance so that Alren can transform atop Arin's Coloss.

Returning to Fort Salta, Falo touches down and exits his Coloss to tearfully reunite with his parents. Their reunion is short-lived, however, as Arin transforms into a new Coloss form and continues his advance.

The centipede creature arrives at the base of the fort and begins emitting a steam-like gas which seeps through the fort and surrounding area; overhearing Kael demand Mira and Pixa get back aboard the Jaw Ttan, Falo is horrified to learn that the gas will soon turn all the Vestari present into mindless Colossi. Falo then departs with Pixa and the two Ackermanns. He flies Mira and Kael to Arin's Coloss, where the two work together to infiltrate Arin's mouth and kill him.

Following Arin's death Falo's Coloss begins to disintegrate. Exiting his Coloss on the ground, Falo is ecstatic to see that the Vestari have all returned to their human forms and immediately begins searching for Gara. The two children's reunion is cut short by the arrival of the Marleyans from Fort Salta, who demand that the Vestari all prove they can no longer turn into Colossi. Before the Marleyans can execute anyone, Alren arrives and manages to talk them down.

In the three years following the battle at Fort Salta, Falo and Gara are seen planting trees in an area marked by the Colossal Colossi' footprints, helping in what seems to be a collective effort to heal the environment after the World Fracture .

As an Eldian Warrior and candidate for the inheritance of one of the Coloss powers, Falo has endured hard military training. He is also skilled enough to have survived the battle of Fort Slava. He is a very athletic individual, being able to run at great speed in order to save Gara from incoming fire.

Initially selected as a possible candidate to receive the Aegis Coloss, Falo inadvertently inherited the ability to transform into the Razor Coloss ( 顎の巨人 Agito no Kyojin ). In addition to this, due to having been transformed into a Feral Coloss by Zair Kael's Primal Coloss, Falo's Razor Coloss took on some animalistic traits found in birds and developed avian abilities.