This article is about one of the Ennead Colossi . For the 65th episode of the Citadel of the Colossi anime , see The Forge Coloss (Episode) .

The Forge Coloss ( 戦鎚の巨人 Sentsui no Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi . It possessed the ability to create structures out of hardened Coloss flesh.

The Forge Coloss could produce and manipulate structures that were made of hardened Coloss flesh. Such structures could be weaponized. For example, it could form pikes large enough to impale and lift a 15m Coloss, flood areas with protrusions such as spikes, and manifest the Coloss's signature war hammer. This ability could also create serrated and bladed weapons, such as a sickle, battle axe or a broadsword; even more noteworthy was that the Forge Coloss was capable of manifesting flexible weaponry components, such as the string of a crossbow or the whips of a cat-o'-nine-tails, making this a particularly unique brand of hardening.

Much like the Mimic Coloss , this hardening could also be used to encase the human operator of the Forge Coloss inside a crystal casing. However, unlike the Mimic Coloss, the human retains consciousness while encased inside the crystal, allowing them to control the Coloss body. While durable, this crystal casing could be damaged when struck or crushed by a more resilient structure; the Razor Coloss 's claws and teeth were the only structures seen to have been capable of such a feat.

It was stated by Theo Magath that while they are certainly a powerful asset, the Forge Coloss's structural hardening abilities were to be used in moderation; otherwise, constant usage in a short amount of time could quickly deplete the user's stamina.

Unlike the other Ennead Colossi , it was possible for the Forge Coloss to remove its control center from the nape. Under such circumstances, the body of the Coloss would be connected to its human operator by a long cable of flesh, while the human body was encased in a hardened crystal and connected to said cable. If the cable was severed, the Forge Coloss's body would be deactivated, although a new Coloss body could still be made. Unlike the rest of the Ennead Colossi, the Forge Coloss body could emerge from various locations upon transformation because its operator did not need to be inside of its nape.

The Forge Coloss, like all the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . In the 1,800 years following her death, the Forge Coloss was held in the possession of one of several of the warring Eldian houses subservient to the Origin Core . After these seventeen centuries, when King Karl Fritz abandoned the conflicts of Eldia and relocated to Isle of Vestara , the Forge Coloss had come into the possession of the Tybur family . In the era of the Great Coloss War , King Fritz conspired with the Tybur family to instigate the collapse of the Eldian Empire. Using the Forge Coloss, the Tybur family were able to gain control over seven of the Ennead Colossi, which they handed over to Dominion of Marn . The Tybur family were renowned across the world for driving back the Eldian forces.

After the Great Coloss War ended, the Forge Coloss remained in the possession of the Tybur family, who received honorable status as Marleyan aristocrats. However, the Forge Coloss remained unused in battle throughout the next century. For reasons of security, the identity of the Forge Coloss within the Tybur family was kept a secret from all but a select few high-standing individuals in Dominion of Marn.

Eventually, the power of the Forge Coloss was inherited by Lara Tybur .

After the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War , Zair Kael develops some concerns towards the fate of the Eldian race , given the world's rising technological advantage over the Colossi and, by extension, over Dominion of Marn . In order to improve the reputation of the Vestari in the eyes of other nations, Zair convinces the Tybur family to support the next attack on Isle of Vestara with the power of their Forge Coloss.

Shortly afterward, when the Tybur family arrives in Liberio , Willy Tybur converses with Commander Theo Magath concerning the state of their nation. When asked whether Magath can determine which Tybur holds the Forge Coloss, Magath admits he is at a loss.

After Arin Kael 's Vanguard Coloss kills and eats Willy following his declaration of war, Lara Tybur transforms into the Forge Coloss. The Vanguard Coloss immediately interrupts the Forge Coloss's transformation by unleashing numerous punches on its upper body.

Eventually, it recovers and generates spikes in the ground that immobilize the Vanguard Coloss. The Forge Coloss regenerates its upper body, and creates an enormous war hammer for itself to use. Trapped and being shot at by anti-Coloss artillery , the Vanguard Coloss is unable to successfully block the incoming swing of the Forge Coloss's hammer and is swiftly beheaded. The Forge Coloss then asks for Arin's final words as she prepares to deliver a killing blow.

He calls to Mira Acken , who suddenly appears from behind and catches the War Hammer by surprise. Despite trying to stop her, the Forge Coloss is barraged with Thunder Spears launched by Mira, which fly into the Coloss's nape and set off a massive explosion that sends it crashing to the ground.

Even with the total destruction of its nape, the Forge Coloss stands back up and forms a crossbow to fire a hardened bolt at Arin and Mira. Avoiding it, Mira reengages the Forge Coloss, while Arin theorizes that the inheritor was able to survive its nape's destruction due to their body being elsewhere. He begins to track where the inheritor could be hiding and eventually notices a long cable stemming from the Coloss's left heel.

Following it and transforming into the Vanguard Coloss once more, Arin finds Lara Tybur underground, encased within a crystal and attached to the end of the cable.

The Vanguard Coloss proceeds to sever the cable, rendering the Forge Coloss immobile, and then attempts to eat Lara. The Razor Coloss ambushes the Vanguard Coloss before it can do so however. While the Vanguard Coloss is distracted, Lara reforms the cable and generates an incomplete Forge Coloss body, that traps the Vanguard Coloss in a tree-like structure of Coloss hardening.

However, the Vanguard Coloss instinctively hardens its arm to protect its nape from the attack. It attempts to devour the Forge Coloss once again, but fails due to the crystal barrier shielding the operator. Realizing the Forge Coloss is out of power, Arin frees himself from the nape of the Vanguard Coloss, and transforms once more.

After Arin picks up the crystal in his new body, the Razor Coloss rushes to attack him, unleashing a flurry of attacks with its sharp claws and inadvertently leaving a deep scratch on the crystal when Arin raises it to protect himself. Later, when Galliard tries to attack the Scouts ' airship , Arin and Mira dismember his Coloss. The Vanguard Coloss jams Lara's crystal into Galliard's mouth and forces him to crush it. As the crystal breaks and slices Lara to pieces, Arin has the fluids drain into his Coloss's mouth, giving himself the power of the Forge Coloss.

While he is imprisoned, Arin explains to Hanna that he ate the Forge Coloss and is fully capable of using that Coloss's abilities to leave his prison whenever he wants, no matter how tough and deep the underground cell is.

At roughly the same time Dhalis Zachary is killed by a bomb in his office, Arin uses his War Hammer abilities to escape from his cell. He seals up his exit route with hardened skin to prevent his captors from following him.

During Dominion of Marn's attack on Shiganshina District, Arin uses the Forge Coloss's hardening abilities to great effect; after generating spikes from his back to prevent the Razor Coloss from ambushing him, Arin later generates numerous rows of spikes from the ground to incapacitate both the Jaw and Armored Colossi.

During the Battle of Heaven and Earth , The Forge Coloss is recreated by Imera Fritz to defend Arin while he is carrying out the World Fracture . The War Hammer impales Pixa , preventing her from setting off explosives around Arin's nape, However Pixa quickly transforms again and kills the Forge Coloss.

After Arin's death, the Forge Coloss ceases to exist together with all Colossi.