Gara Feld ( ガビ・ブラウン Gara Buraun ) is an Eldian serving in the Marleyan Military and the cousin of Rynor Feld . She is a candidate ( 戦士候補生 Senshi Kōho-sei ) that is likely to inherit the Aegis Coloss 's power .

Gara is a short, young girl with a petite yet athletic build. She has a small face with wide bright brown eyes, defined eyebrows, a small upturned nose and a notably radiant smile. She also has medium length dark brown hair which she keeps half tied above her head with large strands on each side of her face. Like her fellow Warrior candidates, she wears the standard Marleyan soldier uniform consisting of a white jacket and pants, supply packs on the hip, suspender straps, a hard hat with a stripe around it, and knee-high black combat boots.

As an Eldian , her uniform is different from the Marleyans, as her shirt collar has a small badge with the Eldian star instead of a small clip and her hat has a white stripe with the Eldian star on it instead of a pure black stripe. However, underneath her uniform, she wears a short tattered white dress with poorly made thigh-length white shorts. Gara's casual wear consists of a white shirt, black dress, light brown thigh-length mantle, and brown loafers. As is law in Dominion of Marn, Gara also wears the Eldian armband as all her family members and ancestors residing there do so as well.

Gara is very passionate and head-strong, expressing her emotions and opinions without inhibition and confident in her superiority over the other Warrior candidates. She is also brave, possessing boundless determination, and willing to put her life on the line to complete a goal for a perceived greater good. She also shows concern for her fellow Vestari , risking her life to take out a train instead of letting 800 of her brethren charge the gunmen guarding their objective.

However, these attributes can also make her somewhat overbearing and domineering. This causes her to be tactless at times, forcing her opinions on others and taking charge regardless of whether it was asked for or not. She mostly shows this side around her fellow Warrior candidates, considering herself their de facto leader to an extent, and even threatening to 'punish' them when they disagree with her. Nonetheless, she is friendly enough that they have no issue with spending their leisure time with her.

Gara and her fellow Warrior candidates are placed on the front lines during Dominion of Marn's attack on Fort Slava . When Falo 's brother Colvin returns to their hiding trench with his wounded brother, Gara and her fellow candidates tend to his wounds as she re-explains their objective to him. Falo asks why they are on the front lines as candidates and Gara explains that it is so they can be evaluated by Commander Magath for their capabilities as successors to the Aegis Coloss power. When Zofia begins to boast about her grades, Gara interrupts her by explaining her superior resolve to kill all the people of Isle of Vestara and free the people trapped in Liberio .

When the enemy emerges with an armored train , Commander Magath makes a plan to have 800 Eldian Warriors charge the mid-eastern gunmen guarding the base to create an opening. However, Gara volunteers to use a bomb she made to take out the anti-Coloss artillery alone, without losing any soldiers. She is initially denied, but Gara is able to convince Magath to let her go. Removing her uniform and tying the bomb to her leg, Gara leaves the ditch and approaches the gunmen with her hands up. She pretends to trip and then throws the bomb on the train tracks, derailing the train and killing the gunmen as she runs away laughing. One of the survivors opens fire, but Gara is saved by the arrival of Galliard 's Coloss , which shields her.

While she puts her clothes back on, she sees Falo bringing an injured enemy soldier to the trench. She mocks him, telling him that there is no way he can surpass her as a possible heir of the Aegis Coloss by following international law. After the cadets finish tending to their wounded, they watch the second phase of the assault as Zair Kael and her cousin Rynor attack the fort.

After the battle has ended, Gara is seen waiting with her comrades in a port. The children state how the power of the Colossi is starting to lose its dominance. They also see several enemy soldiers who suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and come to the conclusion that those survivors will only give the Vestari a worse reputation. When Rynor appears, she seems very happy upon seeing him and hugs him. She convinces Rynor to explore the city with her and the other candidates before they return to Liberio.

As the Eldian unit is returning to Liberio via train, Colvin gets drunk and starts praising Gara for her accomplishments at Slava. Motivated by his speech, all present soldiers start drinking and cheering her name while Gara cheers for herself. The train reaches Liberio and Gara jumps out eagerly, yelling with excitement to be home, before being quieted a hungover Colvin. Galliard and Pixa congratulate Gara for her accomplishments at Slava. The Vestari proceed to Liberio's internment zone on foot, where Gara is reunited with her family.

That night, the Braus family eats dinner together. Gara recounts her experience of blowing up the Armored Train, warranting congratulations from her family. When asked by his mother, Rynor admits that Gara is currently first in line to inherit the Aegis Coloss. Karina says that all that is left to do is to exterminate the people of Isle of Vestara, which Gara swears to do. When the topic of Rynor's time in Isle of Vestara appears, Gara expresses sympathy towards Rynor, telling her family not to make Rynor talk about it.

Despite this, Rynor begins to tell the family about his experiences with the people of Isle of Vestara, but his words confuse Gara as the Wall people are not painted in a negative light compared to typical Dominion of Marn propaganda. This confusion is quickly stamped out when Karina begins to shower Dominion of Marn propaganda back onto Gara.

As Rynor and Gara walk to the Warriors' headquarters the next morning, Rynor notes that Gara is behaving differently. Gara accuses Rynor of lying to her, but her cousin insists that he has nothing to lie about. Once she arrives at the Warriors' headquarters, she begins training with Falo.

During training, she is beaten by Falo in a footrace for the first time. On the way back to the internment zone, she is annoyed by a soldier's comment and reminds her friends that her achievements make her a better candidate than Falo. Seeing how determined he looks, she asks him about his motivations, reminding him of his brother's status. Falo tells her it is for her sake, which surprises and angers her, having the feeling that he gets in her way.

The same day, she watches the preparations for the festival with Uran and Zofia. As they discuss the Eldian's situation, she reminds them of their job for the night and tells them to correct their quirks, then chokes them as a punishment for having cheered for Falo earlier.

In the evening, she works as a waitress with her fellow candidates for the ambassadors welcome party. Seeing Uran having trouble, she approaches him, and the four candidates then listen to Willy Tybur's declaration to the guests.

The following day, she wakes up late and gets out to see many attractions in the internment zone. She is joined by her friends who tell her about the festival and take her with them. During the day, she enjoys the event with Rynor and the others. Later on, Rynor has to drag her as she has eaten too much. At night, her group joins the other Warriors to hear Willy Tybur's speech.

Gara watches Tybur's production along with her fellow Warriors and Warrior candidates. When Tybur reveals that it was actually Karl Fritz, not the Tybur family, who ended the Great Coloss War, Gara and her fellow candidates are left stunned. She and the others hear the rest of Willy's speech and his declaration of war against Isle of Vestara. Suddenly, Arin's Vanguard Coloss comes forth to crush the stage, sending Willy's eviscerated corpse into the air and rubble hurling towards the crowd.

Gara is dazed by the sudden attack, needing to be helped to her feet by Colvin. She is traumatized to see Zofia's corpse beneath a rock beside her, and is grabbed by Colvin to help her escape from the area. Uran, who had been with them, breaks off to check on Zofia. However, the crowd separates Uran before trampling him in the pandemonium.

Colvin and Gara are forced to take cover behind rubble, and wait for the panicked crowd to pass them. Later on, they flee the area that had become a battlefield between the Vanguard Coloss and the Forge Coloss. After recovering Uran's mangled form, she asks Colvin how Uran is, but he is unable to give her a straight answer, saying they should go to a hospital instead.

They get to a hospital and Colvin begs a doctor to take a look at Uran, but the doctor refuses, stating that their beds are full and Uran is already dead. Disheartened, Colvin puts Uran's corpse on the ground and asks Gara to stay with her family and get as far away from the plaza as possible while he goes to look for Falo, ensuring her that the Warrior Unit will defeat the invading Colossi. However, she refuses, and announces that she will go to fight too, because she cannot understand why Uran and Zofia were killed. She then runs towards the battle zone, as Colvin vainly tries to stop her.

Finding a convoy of reinforcements, Gara requests to be allowed in one of the cars, but the gate guards order her to go home. At that moment, the area is attacked by the Recon Legion, who strike the soldiers with bombs and bullets. As one of the guards tells Gara to run, he is also killed by a sniper atop a nearby roof.

Gara watches as the woman and her comrade flee from the scene, and then grabs the rifle left by one of the fallen guards. She runs towards the plaza, declaring that she will kill Arin. She later joins Magath and Falo near the battlefield, where she witnesses the transformation of the Cataclysm Coloss at the nearby port. The shock-wave knocks the three off their feet, though they are unharmed. They then watch as the Primal Coloss and the Burden Coloss are overpowered by the Scouts. Falo then runs to the Burden Coloss's side and begs for the fighting to stop.

Under Magath's orders, Gara assists Falo in rescuing Pixa, while Magath and other Marleyan soldiers hold off the Scouts. They later take refuge inside a building, and Falo and Gara watch astonished at the state which Pixa has been left in. Falo observes that her injuries are so serious that her body is not repairing itself fast enough, and Gara adds that the Burden Coloss is not as tough as some of the others, such as the Aegis Coloss. Gara asks Falo about Rynor, and Falo responds that he does not know, as he was below the building behind the stage during Arin's attack, and he thinks that they should not disturb him. Gara is shocked at Falo's words, reminding him that Uran, Zofia and many others have been killed by Arin.

The children soon witness the Vanguard Coloss defeating the Razor Coloss and trying to bite through its nape, which prompts them to yell desperately for Rynor to save him. Their screams are successful as Rynor surfaces in an un-armored Coloss form and manages to take Galliard away from Arin, although he is knocked down by him. When Arin retreats with Mira Acken, Gara decides that she will not let them escape and takes a rifle as she runs out of the building in their pursuit.

Eventually, Falo catches up with Gara and says there is no point in going after the airship, but she tells him that despite how she is treated in the internment zone, it is still her home and she cannot forgive anyone who attacks it. She refuses to listen to Falo's suggestion that the "island devils" have been similarly invaded, insisting that killing them is normal, and they are not like the Vestari in the internment zone.

Gara sees an enemy soldier grappling to the airship above her and shoots him in the head. His body falls with his weapon and equipment still tethered to the airship. Gara tests the weapon and, after asking Falo to tell her family and superiors that she fought to the end, activates the trigger to reel up to the airship. At the last moment, Falo grabs onto the corpse and is taken with her. Upon reaching the airship, Gara rolls inside and fires her rifle at the group of Scouts. The bullet hits a woman in the chest and both Gara and Falo are taken prisoner.

She yells that they are carrying out Zair's will and that the soldier holding her can tell their ringleader that the true Vestari will curse them into their graves. The soldier invites Gara to tell their ringleader in person and takes her and Falo into another back room. Gara is stunned to see the ringleader is actually their Warchief, Zair Kael, who is still alive.

After arriving at Isle of Vestara, Gara and Falo are put into a prison cell.

Sometime later Gara begins feigning a seizure, attracting the attention of her guard. When the guard attempts to check on her, she uses a brick concealed in her clothes to beat him. Gara and a regretful Falo then hide the guard under her bed, before the two flee the prison. Gara, still shaken by Zair's betrayal, laments that she can no longer trust anyone.

Early the next morning, they stop at a river. Falo notices that Gara still has her Eldian armband on and tells her to remove it. Gara does not and claims that a civilian would not know what it means and there would not be any soldiers out this far. She tells Falo she will most likely not return back to Dominion of Marn and resolves to track down Zair in order to ask why he betrayed Dominion of Marn before she either gets recaptured or killed. Gara tells Falo that he does not have to follow her and can do as he pleases.

Falo responds by tearing off Gara's armband, driving her into a frenzy. She throws Falo to the ground, demanding that he return it. A girl named Kaya notices them and asks what they are doing on their own. Gara claims they ran away from home and discreetly tries to pick up a large rock to attack the girl. As the girl invites them both to her home, Falo takes the rock away from Gara.

They reach the house and Gara ponders whether to take a horse to escape, believing that the military will now be looking for them after she killed the guard. When Falo insists they stay for a few days, Gara refuses and does not wish to eat with devils. As the farmer asks why they are here, Gara is somewhat surprised to hear a southern Dominion of Marn dialect coming from him. As Gara is given some breakfast, Lisa Braus pats her on the head; this causes Gara to shriek and quickly swat Lisa's hand away. Falo persuades her to eat and, eventually, Gara does comply.

As Gara is working in the Braus's stables, one of their horses starts biting her head. She blames the devils for her woes and insists that they cannot get any information while staying here, but Falo believes that either Colvin or Rynor will be coming for them both. As they take a lunch break outside, Gara begins to tear into Kaya with her indoctrinated belief that Vestari should not pretend to be good humans. Falo interjects, but both are stunned to hear Kaya mention that she knows they are from Dominion of Marn. Gara tries to use a pitchfork to kill Kaya and is only stopped by Falo's intervention.

Kaya takes them both to her old village and shows them where her mother was eaten by a Coloss. She asks Gara why they deserve to be hated so much, who responds by recounting the atrocities of the Eldian Empire, and says that they should not act as if they are victims. Kaya states that her entire family was born in this area and never did anything wrong.

Caught off guard, Gara responds, beginning a heated argument back and forth between them. This is halted by Falo, who explains that Kaya's village was caught in a test of the Walled country's strength. Gara bitterly chastises Falo for revealing this. Kaya offers to take them to a restaurant where other Marleyans work, giving them a possible route way back to Dominion of Marn. Gara is surprised and asks why she would do that.

After arriving at Nicolo's restaurant, Gara is nervous but Kaya claims that he is from Dominion of Marn and can be trusted. She participates in the meal and is surprised by how good it is. Seeing Falo excuse himself, Gara goes along with his story and they both seek out Nicolo. Finding him in the basement, Gara reveals herself and Falo as part of the Warrior cadets from Dominion of Marn. Seeing his confused face, Gara describes how they smuggled themselves aboard the airship used by the Recon Legion during the Raid on Liberio.

When Nicolo warily asks if they killed anyone, Gara excitedly confirms that she killed a female soldier. As Falo tries getting her attention, Gara fails to see Nicolo grab a wine bottle and become enraged at seeing her announce she was Sera's killer. He goes to strike her with the bottle but Falo takes the blow. Nicolo punches Gara in the face and brings them both to the dining room area. Gara hears Nicolo reveal her and Falo's true identities in front of the stunned Braus family and that if Artur Braus does not kill her, Nicolo will.

When he threatens to slice Falo's neck, she pleads with him to not harm Falo as she is the one responsible. Gara then berates Nicolo for being seduced by the island devils, but becomes riddled with fear when Artur asks for the knife. Seeing him handle the knife but not express anger and fear at her causes Gara to realize the people of Isle of Vestara are perhaps not the devils she was raised to believe. One of the soldiers, Mira, deflects an attack by a grief-stricken Kaya and helps tend to Gara's injuries.

After being led to a back room, Gara asks Mira why she did not allow Kaya to kill her after everything she has done but does not get any response. She then requests that they kill her, but spare Falo since he had no part in her actions. Soon, Arin arrives unexpectedly and Gara sits with all three while they talk. She stays silent after hearing them discuss Arin's recent actions, nervously looking at Arin's sliced open hand. Gara is shocked when Alren attacks Arin after he verbally abused Mira and watches the two briefly fight. As both Mira and Alren are ordered to be taken to Shiganshina District, Arin orders his followers to have Gara taken as well.

In a prison cell in Shiganshina, Gara recalls the Braus family weeping at the restaurant, but convinces herself that they are still the enemy. Suddenly, Arin enters her cell accompanied by two guards in military uniforms. In exchange for saving Falo's life, he asks her to cooperate with him by making a radio call for help, which would make the Paradis infiltrators react. Gara is overcome with fear and is unable to move. Just then, one of the guards stabs the other in the neck and points her gun at Arin. Gara recognizes the guard as Pixa, but is quickly silenced by her.

Pixa orders Gara to use the dead guard's rifle to hold Arin at gunpoint, but orders her to stand down once Arin correctly deduces that neither of them have the permission to harm him. To Gara's horror, Pixa claims that she desires to join Arin in overthrowing Dominion of Marn, and attempts to turn her gun on Pixa before being disarmed. Pixa agrees to show Arin where her comrades are hiding as a sign of her loyalty, and she and Gara are then handcuffed together before traveling to the roof of the Jaegerist headquarters.

As they make their way to the roof, Gara asks to know where Falo has been taken and is shocked to learn that he has ingested some of Zair's spinal fluid.

Upon reaching the roof, Pixa shields Gara as Galliard's Coloss bursts from within the building to eat Arin. Gara is overjoyed to learn that Pixa has not betrayed Dominion of Marn, and is thrilled to see the Marleyan air force arriving over Paradis. Pixa has Galliard cut off her arm so that she can transform and uses her Coloss form to flee to safety with Gara.

Gara and Pixa rendezvous with a group of soldiers led by Magath. Although Gara is relieved to see Magath again, she regretfully informs him and Colvin that Falo has ingested Zair's spinal fluid, and has been imprisoned as well. As the soldiers discuss possible reasons that Arin has not used the Origin Core yet, Gara recalls Zair's claim that Paradis now has a Coloss of royal blood; this leads the soldiers to hypothesize that he was talking about himself, and that Arin has to be in contact with him in order to activate the Founder.

Gara refuses Colvin's demand to escape in the airship while he rescues Falo, stating that she too wants to save him since she is the one who dragged him into all of this mess and caused all of this trouble for the Marleyan army. Gara then stops Colvin from killing Nile Dawk by surprise while they were hiding, and the two run away with Falo without casualties.

Colvin wonders why Gara trusted an enemy that let them escape with Falo, and she states that she finally understands the truth about the people whom she believed were devils; she regrets killing Sera and apologizes to Falo for her actions. After hearing Falo's reason for attempting to be selected as the Aegis Coloss, Gara agrees with Colvin's reasoning that Zair will be resistant to transforming the Vestari once he learns Falo is among them.

As Colvin and Falo are confronting Zair about Falo's predicament, Gara arrives with a horse and tries to convince Falo to flee out of range of Zair's scream with her. However, before she can get any closer, Zair screams and Falo is transformed into a Feral Coloss. As Falo attacks Rynor and Galliard, Gara sees that Colvin has been killed by Falo's transformation, and retrieves his anti-Coloss rifle from his corpse. As Arin exits his Coloss to reach Zair, Gara aims the rifle at him and fires, decapitating Arin.

Falling backwards from the gun's recoil, Gara notices the walls cracking as the earth around her starts to rumble. Moments later, the walls begin to crumble as the Colossal Colossi emerge from their core. Large pieces of the broken wall begin falling close to Gara. Gara is saved from the falling debris by Rynor, who uses his Coloss to shield her as he carries her away from the wall. However, his Coloss's armor begins to crumble as well, forcing him to exit his Coloss.

As the two continue on foot, Gara tries to find Falo and Rynor informs her that the boy was likely kidnapped by enemy combatants. Rynor begins to pass out from fatigue and Gara helps him into a nearby building to rest. Before losing consciousness, Rynor orders Gara to flee south and evacuate the island with the rest of Dominion of Marn's forces, but Gara chooses to stay behind and search for Falo.

Gara soon finds the Braus family being attacked by a Coloss and uses her rifle to kill it before it can devour Kaya. She explains that she is looking for Falo, but is interrupted by the arrival of several Paradis soldiers. Kaya claims that Gara is part of the Braus family and Nicolo claims to have killed the Coloss to protect Gara's identity, and as they are escorted to the military's headquarters for protection; Artur encourages Gara to escape and find Falo at the first chance she gets.

Gara asks Kaya why she protected her identity from the soldiers and Kaya responds by asking why Gara saved her life from the Coloss. Kaya asks Gara if she is a devil for trying to kill her, and Gara sullenly claims to be the only devil for having killed so many people.

After reaching the military headquarters, Artur brings Alren and Mira to Gara so they can return Falo to her. Gara is horrified to hear that Falo has been taken to be sacrificed to a Feral Coloss, and tries to reason that Arin can use the Origin Core to revert the Coloss back to normal. When the soldiers reason that Arin would have reverted the Colossi in Shiganshina to normal if he could, she frantically claims that there is still the possibility he can if he is able to undo all Coloss hardening.

After saying goodbye to the Braus family, Gara departs for Ragako with Alren. They arrive at the village just as Conny is preparing to feed Falo to his mother. When Conny refuses to back down Alren tries to feed himself to the Coloss in Falo's place, resulting in Conny leaving the boy to save Alren. With her friend returned to her, Gara comforts Falo as he mourns his brother's death.

The four return to Shiganshina, where they run into Anya Levar while eating. After the reunion, Gara and the rest of the group work with Jaren, Mira and Pixa to escape the Jaegerists in Shiganshina. While leaving, they stop to pick up Rynor.

The group meets up with the rest of their allies outside of Shiganshina and share a meal together. While tensions are already running high, Yelena makes the situation worse by intentionally trying to start fights between the Warriors and the Paradis Vestari. This eventually leads to Jaren flying into a rage and attacking Rynor, forcing Gara to physically shield her cousin from harm. Although she is left injured by Jaren, Gara apologizes for Dominion of Marn's years of aggression towards Paradis and begs the Paradis Vestari to help save the outside world. The next day, the alliance arrives at Paradis' harbor to find it occupied by Jaegerist forces.

While some of the group engage the Jaegerist forces, Gara and other noncombatants are carried to a boat in the harbor by Pixa. Once on the boat, Gara and Magath give their comrades supporting fire, but she is temporarily distracted by a bright flashing light coming from the harbor, signaling that Falo had transformed into the Razor Coloss. One of the Jaegerists manages to make a break for the boat and aims a Thunder Spear at the hull, but Gara shoots him mid-air, before he can launch it and he falls into the ocean.

As the boat leaves the harbor, Gara looks over a regenerating Falo and then asks Pixa where Magath is, only to learn that he has stayed behind to fend off the Jaegerists. Not long after, Pixa embraces Gara as the passengers watch the aftermath of a ship's explosion which resulted in Magath's death.

At Odiha, Pixa instructs Kiyomi to keep Gara and Falo locked inside a room on board the ship as they may object to staying behind while the others take the flying boat to confront Arin. When the Wall Colossi arrive, Gara desperately pleads with Anya to release them.

After leaving Odiha, Gara and Falo reveal to Anya that Falo likely received a memory of a previous Primal Coloss who was capable of flight and theorize that he could do the same due to the unique appearance of his Coloss which is presumably because he ingested Zair's spinal fluid.

Falo succeeds in using his Coloss to fly and he carries Gara and Anya to Fort Salta . The group arrives just in time to save Mira, Rynor, Jaren, Conny and Kael from being devoured by an army of Colossi. As Falo returns to Arin's Coloss, the group decides that they no longer have any choice other than killing Arin. Gara reveals to the others that when she decapitated Arin in Shiganshina, she saw a glowing centipede emerge from his spine and attach itself to his head after coming into contact with Zair.

Deducing that the centipede might be the true nature of the Coloss Manifestation , Gara suggests that they might see the creature again if Arin is decapitated again. From atop Falo's flying Coloss Gara helps Mira recover Alren from the Okapi Coloss by shooting it in the head with her anti-Coloss rifle.

As Alren transforms atop Arin's Coloss, Falo carries the rest of the group back to Fort Salta. Gara is able to reunite with her family and inform Karina that Rynor is alive, but their meeting is cut short by the realization that Arin and the centipede both survived Alren's transformation. Gara advises that they find a way to keep the centipede from returning to Arin, but group is caught off-guard when the centipede begins emitting smoke into the fort. The Scouts realizes that the centipede is going to turn the Vestari in the fort into Colossi and Falo departs with the Ackermans and Pixa while Gara and the others are left behind.

The Vestari inside Salta are all transformed and immediately go to defend the centipede while it tries to return to Arin.

Following Arin's death the power of the Colossi is undone and all of the Vestari return to their human forms. Gara reunites with her parents and Falo, but their reunion is cut short by the arrival of the Marleyans from Fort Salta, who demand that the Vestari all prove they can no longer turn into Colossi. Before the Marleyans can execute anyone, Alren arrives and manages to talk them down.

In the three years following the battle at Fort Salta, Gara and Falo are seen planting trees in an area marked by the Colossal Colossi' footprints, helping in what seems to be a collective effort to heal the environment after the World Fracture .

As a member of the Marleyan army and a candidate to inherit the Aegis Coloss power, Gara has gone through a thorough military training. She is a very resourceful individual, creating a make-shift bomb in the midst of the battle of Fort Slava. She also had the idea of simulating her surrender in order to launch the bomb from a more favorable position.

She is noted by many to be the most favorable candidate to inherit the Aegis Coloss. It can be assumed that her hand to hand combat prowess is considerably superior to Falo's, since he lamented his poor performance as a candidate while having several bruises on his face after one of their sparring sessions.