Hanna Vey ( ハンジ・ゾエ Hanji Zoe , also translated as Hans Zoe ) was the 14th and current Commander ( 団長 Danchō ) of the Recon Legion , formerly a section commander ( 分隊長 Bun-taichō ) in charge of the Fourth Squad , until the death of the 13th Commander - Orwin Hale - who named Hanna as his successor shortly before. Hanna conducted research on Colossi to the point of being obsessed with them. As a result, they were deeply interested in Arin Kael and his ability to transform into a Coloss .

Hanna had wide, light brown eyes and medium-length dark brown hair that they often kept tied up in a high ponytail with bangs parted down the middle. During the Battle of Shiganshina , Hanna's left eye was badly damaged; as a result, they started to wear a fitted black eye patch with a thin strap to cover it. As a constantly busy person, their hair was thrown up very quickly which looks unkempt.

Hanna wore square, thick-rimmed glasses that had bands strapped around their head to keep them from dislodging during combat; but when they were out of combat, they wore thin oval-shaped glasses, still keeping the bands on their head most of the time. Hanna was occasionally shown pulling their glasses up onto their forehead from time to time, often to indicate seriousness or anger. They were often seen wearing the normal Recon Legion uniform with a yellow button-down shirt underneath. When on missions or business, they wore a green Recon Legion cloak.

Hanna appeared as an energetic and quirky scientist, with a unique way of conducting both themselves and their work. However, they edre able to keep a level head in perilous situations while making quick, solid decisions; ordering those below them while simultaneously showing concern for their well-being and the success of the mission.

Hanna explained that they at first had a very hateful heart when joining the Recon Legion , but when they kicked the head of a 3-meter Coloss , they were shocked at how abnormally light it was. This drove them to take an extreme and outside-the-box approach to Coloss research. Hanna showed great compassion for their Coloss test subjects, even crying when they were forced to put Beane in severe pain for an experiment. Hanna developed relationships with the Colossi, and when they were killed Hanna had a complete meltdown.

Hanna was a genius, using their brain for the benefit of humanity. As a leader, they excelled and were able to easily figure out complex problems and create plans for the squad to carry out. However, despite their cheeriness, in an interview, Hajime Isayama said that he believes Hanna to be the scariest character when angry. This trait is heavily emphasized when Hanna threatened to drop Pastor Nick off the edge of Inner Ring for not giving them the information they requested. This change of character was often marked by Hanna putting their glasses on top of their head, and their cheery nature could be seen returning when they put them back down.

Hanna is among the many surprised recruits present when Kael , Isabel Magnolia , and Furlan Church are introduced to the Recon Legion as new recruits. Along with Moblit , Hanna enthusiastically watches Kael demonstrate his omni-directional mobility gear skills during training, commenting on how individual skill and style weigh in on performance and outcomes in battle.

Hanna is impatiently waiting to leave Trost District for the 49th expedition outside the Barrier Rings , wanting to capture a Coloss to study. Hanna tries to convince Kael and Miche Zacharius to help them capture one but they both dismiss them. After the expedition has begun, Hanna attempts to convince the commander, Orwin Hale , to authorize a Coloss capture operation, but he refuses. They then take their frustration out on Oruo Bozad , telling him how important it is to study targets if they are going to win while choking him.

After this, Colossi are sighted in the vicinity and as the Scouts prepare themselves, Hanna runs ahead and attempts to lead a Coloss to the Barrier Rings. The Coloss briefly chases Hanna but suddenly changes course and runs to a spot in the woods. Hanna follows it and tries to communicate with it, but the Coloss does not pay attention. Taking advantage of the Coloss's distraction, Oruo attempts a surprise attack, but stops when Hanna asks him to, and is caught by the Coloss. However, Kael kills it and saves Oruo, much to Hanna's disappointment.

Hanna and the Special Operations Squad then find a notebook and the corpse of a Recon Legion soldier named Ilse Langnar . Upon reading the notebook, Hanna returns Ilse's belongings to her parents and is able to convince Erwin to authorize capture operations. A short while after, with the help of the Special Operations Squad, Hanna is able to successfully capture Colossi with no casualties.

Hanna later appears leaving Trost District on another expedition with the Recon Legion. As Hanna gleefully awaits the mission departure by the gate, they begin teasing Kael for the large amount of fanfare he is receiving from onlookers, stating that they hope to see an Variant Coloss on the missions, and Kael retorts that Hanna is an abnormal.

After the Recon Legion departs, Hanna is next seen excitedly flying through an abandoned town using their omni-directional mobility gear. Hanna grabs a Coloss's attention, promising that they will not hurt it, and when the Coloss swings at them, Hanna easily evades it and kills the Coloss.

Hanna and Miche are assigned to take Arin to his court hearing in front of the leaders of the Military . They are present with the rest of the Recon Legion as Kael beats up Arin and checks on his condition after the tribunal is over, noting that Arin's lost tooth grew back.

Later, when Arin and the Special Operation Squad are at the former Recon Legion Headquarters, Hanna explains that they are in charge of experimenting with captured Colossi Sawney and Beane and begins to prep Arin on previous experiments, but noting his enthusiasm to learn, ends up talking all night until morning. They are then interrupted with news that Beane and Sawney were killed. Rushing to the site, Hanna cries at the loss of their Colossi.

Hanna later moves forward with their experiments on Arin. When it turns out that Arin cannot turn into a Coloss at will, Hanna is a little disheartened. However, seeing Arin's Coloss hand later on causes Hanna to react over-excitedly and breaks the tension between him and the Special Operations Squad. Hanna excitedly runs to Arin and touches his Coloss arm, burning their hands on the exposed muscle. When they find a teaspoon being clutched by Arin's Coloss arm, Hanna concludes that Arin's Coloss powers are only awakened when he has a clear objective in mind, such as the moment when he defended Mira and Alren from cannon fire. Hanna also hypothesizes that this switch must have a good reason as well as being connected to the Coloss's nature.

During the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission , a Mimic Coloss attacks the Scouts and decimates their ranks. After the Mimic Coloss is lured into the Scouts' trap in a Forest of Giant Trees and captured, Hanna mockingly explains to it that the Special target restraining weapon is designed so that the more her wounds heal the more her joints will be immobilized.

When Eld Gin wonders why they were not told of the plan to capture the Mimic Coloss in the Forest of Giant Trees , he speculates that Erwin only told those who were in the regiment before the fall of Outer Ring to be sure they were not spies and that Hanna is among those who were notified.

The Mimic Coloss lets out a deafeningly loud roar, leading numerous Colossi begin to swarm the area and attack it. When they begin to devour her, Erwin orders all squads to engage the Colossi and defend the Female to the death. Hanna fights relentlessly among their comrades but to no avail. The Commander, realizing that all is lost, orders his soldiers to pull back and return to Calaneth District .

As they retreat from the forest, Hanna asks Erwin why he ordered Kael to resupply and split off from them. Erwin asks if Hanna saw the Mimic Coloss's operator get eaten along with the Coloss itself, and Hanna realizes with horror that their enemy is still alive.

During Anya Levar 's rampage through Stohess District , Hanna again uses the special target capture weapons to halt her. After capturing Anya, Hanna goes to the ground and holds their sword to Anya's eye, telling her she is too far in to get Colossi to devour and free her this time. Hanna then states that they will be the one to devour her and get all the information they can from her. Their taunts provoke Anya into lashing out, and Hanna is forced to retreat to the rooftops as Anya breaks free. Hanna laments that they did not have enough traps and orders their squad to follow Anya.

As Arin enters the battle in his Coloss form , Hanna observes that he is retaining control of his Coloss. Arin begins pursuing Anya and Hanna orders their squad to split up and work their way around over the buildings as the two combatants enter an open area of the district. Moblit notes with terror that the two Colossi might destroy the entire district, but Hanna orders him to follow Erwin's plan.

Arin manages to immobilize Anya at the base of Inner Ring, where she encases herself in an impenetrable crystal. Hanna orders the crystal containing Anya to be moved to safety and worries for the future of the Recon Legion after the failure of this mission. Anya is later brought deep underground and kept under the Recon Legion's custody.

While Scouts haul Anya's crystal away, Hanna stands by and assures she is secured with ropes and a tarp. Noticing many of the Scouts are surprised by something, Hanna runs over to see that there is a giant Coloss within the hole in the Wall made by the Mimic Coloss's attempted escape. Moblit asks them for orders, but Hanna stares in shock, wondering how the Coloss could be there and if it was just coincidence or if all the Barrier Rings are filled with them. Hanna's thoughts are then interrupted when Pastor Nick slaps his hand on their shoulder and tells them not to let the sunlight touch the Coloss.

At Nick's direction, they climb on top of the Wall and Hanna has the Coloss covered with a makeshift tarp. Hanna begins questioning Nick on why the Coloss is in the Wall and why he had kept quiet about it. However, Nick dodges their questions by blaming the Recon Legion for the current situation and, saying that he has business to do, requests to be let down from the Wall. Hanna then becomes furious and grabs Nick's shirt, holding him over the edge of the Wall and telling their squad to stay back. They lament about the morals of the Recon Legion and their desire to take back freedom, demanding that Nick speak. When he refuses, Hanna moves to drop him off the edge, but Nick stops struggling and claims that his life is not worth revealing his information. He begs God to deliver him. After a brief hesitation, Hanna throws him back onto the Wall and sits on the edge, claiming it was all a joke. Hanna calmly asks Nick if all the Barrier Rings are filled with Colossi, shaking. Moblit approaches them and Hanna expresses their fear of the unknown, claiming not to have felt this way since their first time outside the Barrier Rings.

Following the news that Middle Ring has been breached, the Scouts prepare for their journey from Stohess to Ehrmich District . Ignoring how close they are to departure time, Hanna studies something under a microscope until Kael comes to retrieve them. They join him in a wagon along with Pastor Nick, Arin, Mira, and Alren. Though Alren is surprised to see a priest from the Order of the Barrier Rings , Hanna brushes his presence off with a joke. More seriously, Hanna explains that Nick is coming with them to witness reality, to see if that changes his unwillingness to speak. Hanna speculates that what Nick knows could be more important than the fate of humanity and that is the reason for his silence.

Kael notices the shard Hanna is holding and asks about it, prompting an explanation that it is a hardened skin fragment that remained behind even after Anya exited the Mimic Coloss. It did not evaporate or disappear, so Hanna compared it to a piece of the Wall. Hanna discovered that their compositions were nearly identical. The Barrier Rings must be made of humongous Colossi and their surface is constructed with hardened Coloss skin.

Hanna points out that plugging the breach in Middle Ring would be difficult without the right-sized boulder, but Arin as a Coloss might be able to use the Colossi' hardening ability to seal the hole in the Wall. Alren adds that they could also use that ability to seal Outer Ring, and then there would be no need to lay supply lines down to Shiganshina . They could go at night while the Colossi are inactive. Hanna considers and agrees that if the group was small enough they could sneak all the way there.

In Ehrmich, Hanna takes stock of their situation and prepares their team for departure. When Kael brings Nick to them, after showing him all the refugees, Hanna asks if he has had a change of heart. Nick is clearly distressed, but cannot tell them anything, saying that it is too great a decision for a single person. However, he can give them a name of a person the Order was instructed to monitor. She joined the Recon Legion this year and she may know truths they are unaware of. However, the girl is currently on the front lines with most of the 104th.

Sera interrupts to hand Hanna a message, which turns out to be a report on Anya Levar's background. According to the report, there are two other members of the 104th who came from the same area as her; Rynor Feld and Bertholdt Hoover . During the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission, their unit in the long-range scouting formation was given false information that said Arin was in the right wing, which is where the Mimic Coloss attacked.

The members of the 104th are reluctant to suspect Rynor and Bertholdt, so Hanna presses them for information regarding their behavior and any contact they might have had with Anya. Alren eventually realizes that Rynor had both the opportunity to learn Arin's true location in the formation and pass it on to Anya. Hanna decides that when they next come in contact with the pair, the Scouts should act normally until the opportunity comes to lead them underground and confine them. Hanna takes a squad with them to rescue Christa Lenz and leads the Scouts to Utgard Castle , where there is a tower they can use to assess the Wall.

Their squad arrives at dawn, just in time to rescue the cadets from the 104th, who had been trapped in the castle by Colossi. Hanna has everyone regroup on Middle Ring, where Imera is pulled up on a stretcher. Meanwhile Christa speaks to Hanna on Imera's behalf, explaining that Imera had transformed into a Coloss to save them. Hanna hears her out and says that despite Imera's prior secrecy, the information she holds could be a treasure for humanity so Hanna hopes they will get along.

Hanna also asks about Christa's real name, if Elira Rhos is related to the Reiss noble family. Christa confirms that is true, and seeing her downcast, Hanna places a hand on her shoulder and tells her that it is nice to meet Elira.

The Citadel Guard 's advance squad arrives and Hannes informs the Scouts that there is no hole in the Wall, at least not between Trost and Krolva Districts . With no Colossi around, despite the previous sightings, Hanna prepares for the Scouts to fall back to Trost and begins discussing alternative methods of Coloss entry with Moblit, but soon recognizes that Arin has fallen behind, talking to Rynor and Bertholdt. Shortly after, the two of them are attacked by Mira and they transform into the Armored and Colossal Colossi in an attempt to kidnap Arin.

Arin transforms into his Coloss form and fights with Rynor at the bottom of the Wall, leaving Hanna and the rest of the Scouts to face the Cataclysm Coloss on top. Hanna orders the Scouts to swarm him, but the Colossal emits a giant burst of scalding steam, forcing them back; this time, however, he does not disappear. Hanna orders three of the four squads present to watch Bertholdt so they can kill him when he comes out. Capture is no longer an option. Hanna takes the last squad along with them to chase the Aegis Coloss.

Hanna lands on Arin's shoulder to ask him if he can break one of Rynor's legs with one of his grappling attacks to buy him time to escape. Arin nods in understanding, to Hanna's amazement and delight. Hanna theorizes that the Aegis Coloss's body cannot be entirely hard like stone because he is able to move too quickly. Rather like armor in the past, there must be points where the joints are not protected to allow for movement. Mira uses this knowledge to cut through the backs of Rynor's knees, giving Arin an advantage in his fight.

Weakened, Rynor roars to signal the Cataclysm Coloss to fall on both him and Arin. Hanna and the other soldiers nearby are severely wounded from the explosion caused by the Cataclysm Coloss's landing and are unable to pursue Rynor and Bertholdt when they escape with a captured Arin and Imera. Later that same day, Erwin arrives with reinforcements and the lifts necessary to move the horses over the Wall for a rescue mission. Hanna rouses themselves and asks for a map.

Hanna uses the map to point out a giant forest to the gathered Scouts. Even though Rynor and Bertholdt can change into Colossi, Hanna suspects that other Colossi will still be a threat to them. After all that fighting they must be exhausted and they will need a safe and secure place to rest before attempting to absconding past Outer Ring, but warns the Scouts they only have until nightfall when the other Colossi cannot move. If the Scouts can get there before then, they might make it in time to rescue Arin.

After the rescue party leaves, Hanna crawls away and asks for a horse even though they are unable to stand, but despite that still wants to go to Ragako to investigate the Coloss that cannot walk. Seeing Hanna's determination, Moblit decides to go himself and tells them to rest.

Some days later, Hanna reports to Erwin back in Trost District, bringing Conny with them to confirm the findings in Ragako. Hanna hypothesizes that the Colossi fought within Middle Ring were citizens from there. Kael sours at the thought that he could have been killing humans this entire time, but Hanna offers him some comfort in that there is still no solid proof of that.

Hanna is later seen performing experiments on Arin's Coloss form. After repeated transformations, Arin's Coloss progressively becomes weaker and more deformed, until it eventually collapses. Hanna and Mira try to free him from the Coloss, but find that his body has begun to fuse to it. As Hanna attempts to pull Arin free, they order Moblit to make a sketch of it. Mira cuts Arin free, and Hanna declares the experiment to be over.

Soon after, Hanna receives word from Moblit that Nick has been murdered. Immediately suspicious, Hanna goes to the crime scene and interrogates the two members of the Internal Directorate guarding the site, claiming to be an old friend of the victim. Upon observing Nick's corpse, Hanna is able to note tell-tale signs of torture on him, and wounds on one officer's hands that suggest he took part in the beating. Pretending to believe the official story that Nick was killed in a robbery, Hanna tells the policemen that Nick will be avenged once they find the culprits.

Hanna travels to the cottage where Kael's squad is staying to inform them of Nick's murder. Once recounting the full story is done, Nifa arrives with a letter for Kael from Erwin, which prompts Kael to have everyone evacuate the premises.

After evacuating, Kael informs the group that the government has frozen all Recon Legion activity, and that they have been ordered to turn over Arin and Elira. Upon also learning from Nifa that Erwin has been arrested, Kael decides to smuggle Arin and Elira into Trost to keep them out of the government's hands, and Hanna agrees to lend him Abel , Keiji , and Nifa to help, while Hanna themselves and Moblit go to aide Erwin in the capitol.

Arriving at the Recon Legion's barracks, Hanna and Moblit wait until the Internal Directorate have departed to speak with Erwin. Hanna informs Erwin of Arin's capture, and tells him their theory that Rod Reiss is planning on eating Arin to steal his Coloss ability.

Afterward, Hanna and Moblit regroup with Kael's squad, who have apprehended Sannes and Ralph . Hanna and Kael take turns torturing Sannes, who refuses to talk. After more torture only results in Sannes begging that they kill him, Hanna and Kael leave and force Ralph, at knife-point, to read a script outside Sannes's door, making him believe he has been betrayed and is considered a lunatic by his comrades. This causes the man to break, revealing to Hanna the secret of the Reiss family—the true rulers of mankind.

After Sannes' confession, Hanna mocks him at length, revealing the truth about Ralph's apparent betrayal. Sannes is deeply shaken, but he warns Hanna that someone else will take his place and wishes them luck. Visibly shaken, Hanna leaves the dungeon and enters a room, violently kicking over a table. Kael walks in on their outburst, and has Hanna fill the rest of his squad in on their theory that Arin will soon be eaten.

Hanna and Moblit travel to visit Erwin again, bringing news of the Reiss family's true status. Erwin gives them the results of his investigation into the Reiss family's property, but before they can continue, Erwin receives word that he has been accused of organizing a murder. He orders Hanna and Moblit to leave immediately, and names Hanna acting commander of the Recon Legion in his absence. Afterwards, Hanna discovers Flegel being pursued by the Internal Directorate, and carries him to safety. There, they learn what really happened to his father and attempts to persuade him to continue fighting in his father's stead. When he states they have already lost, Hanna reminds him with a smile that the Scouts have always had a losing record.

Using Flegel as bait, Hanna lures three Military Policemen into a trap, tricking them into admitting that the MPs murdered Flegel's father. Hanna and Moblit come to his aid, easily dispatching the three soldiers, and revealing that the "abandoned" buildings of Trost are actually full of citizens who have heard the police admit to framing the Recon Legion.

Hanna and Moblit find Kael and his squad while they are interrogating a member of the Internal Directorate, informing them that the military's coup has been a success, further telling them that the royal capital and the administrative district are now under Premier Zachary 's control and that there has been no counter-rebellion so far.

Although his squad celebrates, Kael points out that they still do not have any leads on Arin and Elira, but Hanna claims that they may have the answer to their predicament, revealing Erwin's report of his investigation into the Reiss family and explaining that the Reiss family was attacked and slaughtered on the day of Outer Ring's breach, with Rod being the only survivor. Hanna takes special note of the fact that the chapel the family had been praying in when they were killed was also decimated, and that Rod used his own fortune to have it rebuilt in the following years. Deducing that the chapel must be important to him, Hanna theorizes that it is where he is hiding out.

Hanna, Kael, and his squad arrive at the Reiss chapel, finding the hidden doorway to the caves below. While the interior MPs await them inside for an ambush, the Recon Legion charges to open the door to the cave and roll in several gas canisters tied to barrels. They then charge in behind as Sera uses flaming arrows to create a smoke cloud, and Alren fires flares to obscure them. During the battle, one of Kenny 's subordinates fires a hook into Hanna's right shoulder, throwing them into a Wall. Hanna then crashes down on the floor.

As Rod Reiss transforms into a Coloss, causing the cavern to collapse, Kael orders Moblit and Alren to take Hanna to safety while the rest of his squad saves Arin.

After Squad Kael escapes the Reiss caves, they begin pursuing Rod, with Hanna riding in a wagon due to their wounds. Hanna notes that they now know that only people of the Reiss bloodline can use the Origin Core 's true power, and that if any Reiss member does get the power that they will be controlled by the ideology of the First King and will not free humanity. As it is decided that they will have to kill Rod Reiss, Hanna asks Elira if she is really okay with it.

Arriving in Orvud , the Citadel Guard members stationed in the district are appalled to hear that the Scouts do not want to evacuate the district, and Hanna explains that the Coloss is being attracted to the large populace, which is why they want to keep them in Orvud so they can direct where the Coloss goes.

As a backup plan in the event that the Citadel Guard is unsuccessful in destroying Rod's Coloss, Erwin has Hanna and Moblit bring gunpowder, ropes, and a net, to Erwin while the Citadel Guard tries to kill Rod with the wall's cannons. As Rod's Coloss climbs up onto the Wall and kneels in front of it, Arin transforms and grabs the haul of gunpowder Hanna brought, and uses it to blow apart Rod's head.

Following the battle in Orvud, Hanna attends Elira's coronation as queen of the Barrier Rings.

Two months after Elira's coronation, Hanna is actively engaged in running tests on Arin's Coloss hardening ability in preparation for their journey to Outer Ring. Hanna is seen in Trost District watching as a soldier lures a Coloss into Hanna's own invention which appears to be a Coloss guillotine . As it crushes and kills a Coloss, Hanna and Moblit cheer and rejoice in the success of the invention. Hanna states that they can run these all day without the need for soldiers fighting Colossi or using cannons and other resources, gleefully turning to Arin and informing him that they can mass produce these and put them in every Wall city, but is interrupted upon seeing Kael handing Arin a handkerchief for a nosebleed he has. Kael points out that Arin's body likely has a limit for what it can do, and Hanna apologizes to Arin.

Hanna accompanies Arin to inquire with Commandant Sadies about his involvement with Dr. Jaeger . After listening to Keith's story, Hanna becomes irritated. Deducing that he retired to the training camp out of feelings of obligation and inferiority to others, Hanna claims that he ran away for a childish reason and tells him not to bring his feelings of inferiority into this matter.

Hanna is later present at a Military meeting headed by Dhalis Zachary. After the meeting ends, Hanna meets with the officials in another room, where they are questioned about the contents of the bottle taken from Rod's bag. Hanna states that it is made from spinal fluid thanks to Arin and Elira, but claims that since it evaporates as soon as it touches air it is hard to research. Noting that this stuff is far beyond their capabilities, Hanna questions what the Reiss family did if they created it.

Hanna participates in a meeting of a few Recon Legion members in which they explain to Erwin all the information Keith gave to them and Squad Kael. Erwin and Hanna speculate that Grisha may have wanted to help humanity but was unable to, and ponder what is in the basement of his house in Shiganshina. Hanna is later seen in the dining hall, appalled at the soldiers' fighting over the food.

The day of the operation, all soldiers are ready at dawn. Hanna and other high-ranking soldiers exchange salutes with elite members of the other branches and then head to the Wall. However, the soldiers are surprised to see that the civilians know of the operation's goals and begin to cheer for the regiment. Although Hanna and Kael are initially annoyed that word of their departure has spread, they are silenced by the sight of Erwin; ecstatic to have such fanfare for the regiment, cheering along with the civilians.

On the way to Shiganshina, the soldiers come across a Coloss near dawn. When the group illuminates the Coloss, Hanna briefly observes it, and orders them to leave it alone as it is shutting down due to lack of sunlight. Reaching Shiganshina, Erwin orders the scouts to switch to ODM gear. As Hanna and Kael each fire off a signal flare, the two mention how odd it is that they have not seen a single Coloss and that they are probably playing into the enemies' hands.

After Arin succeeds in sealing the outer hole in Outer Ring, Hanna's squad begins moving to the second gate to finish sealing the hole. Seeing a signal flare from Erwin, Hanna orders their squad to take up positions atop Outer Ring. It is from there that they witness the sudden appearance of Rynor Feld, followed by the Primal Coloss and his army.

On Erwin's orders, all the soldiers deploy. Squad Kael, without Kael himself, and squad Hanna deploy to take down the Aegis Coloss. Arin transforms and draws Rynor into a fight, while Hanna and the soldiers under them prepare to fight Rynor with their new weapons .

As Arin engages Rynor, Hanna's squad begins positioning around the two. Arin maneuvers Rynor into a spot where he can be attacked, and Hanna and Mira dash in and take out his eyes with their spears, as other soldiers strike his nape. Hanna then orders another round of spears to be used on his nape. Hanna orders another round of spears to be prepared for a third attack, but as the squads are preparing they are caught off guard by a loud roar from Rynor's Coloss. Hanna orders that they hit him again, but Alren points out a barrel that has just been thrown into the district. Fearing an attack, Hanna orders their forces to fall back to a safe distance.

Once at a safe distance, Hanna observes the barrel as it descends into the district. Seeing Bertholdt emerge from the barrel, Hanna attempts to go to attack him but Alren goes ahead of them, insisting that they try reasoning with him first. Hanna and Moblit observe Alren's attempt to reason with Bertholdt from afar and when negotiations break down, Hanna orders the rest of their squad to finish off Rynor while they and Moblit pursue Bertholdt. However, Hanna realizes too late that he is preparing to transform and both they and Moblit are caught in the resulting explosion. Numerous soldiers are unsure if Hanna survived.

When trying to think of a way to defeat the Cataclysm Coloss, Alren recalls Hanna stating that the Colossal was susceptible to drawn-out battles. He thinks back to Hanna's experiments with Arin, and recalls when they led a squad fighting Bertholdt on top of Middle Ring, realizing that he must consume flesh to make steam and eventually will run out and be unable to move as a skeleton.

Hanna resurfaces in the battle after recovering from the explosion. Still mobile, they aid Squad Kael as they attempt to fight the Aegis Coloss by using their last Thunder Spear to help blow apart its jaw. This opens Rynor's mouth, allowing Mira to shoot her Thunder Spear inside and blow him out of his Coloss's nape.

Hanna interrogates Rynor about a case he had on his person, and Rynor claims it is a letter from Imera to Elira, which Hanna agrees to deliver. When Rynor refuses to give any other information, Hanna prepares to kill him but is halted by Jaren, who recommends they feed Rynor to someone injected with the Coloss Catalyst . Hanna insists they must kill him immediately, but Jaren continues to press the subject until Hanna sends Mira to retrieve the serum, telling her to shoot a flare if she cannot, so Hanna will know to kill Rynor.

Just as Mira fires her flare, Zair and the Burden Coloss appear behind Hanna and attempt to kill them. Jaren is able to tackle Hanna out of the way, but the two manage to retrieve Rynor and retreat with him. Jaren curses his decision to intervene, but Hanna again reminds him that this was their choice.

Hanna arrives with Kael's squad to see Arin's group, but finds Mira attempting to steal the Coloss injection from Kael so that she can use it to save Alren, despite Kael's choice to save Erwin. Hanna apprehends Mira, holding her back as Kael prepares the injection for Erwin. Hanna tries to convince her that humanity needs Erwin to be saved, explaining that they still require Erwin's leadership.

Hanna tells Mira that they also wish to bring back people, and tells Mira that everyone has to say goodbye someday, insisting that they must move forward. Kael decides to move forward with saving Erwin and Hanna takes Mira and clears the roof with everyone else. However, when Kael regroups with them, he returns with Erwin, having chosen to save Alren. He swears to Erwin that he will kill the Primal Coloss, but Hanna notes that Erwin has already died.

After Alren awakens atop the Wall, Hanna and the others regroup around him and go over the situation from the past four hours and the previous battle. Hanna notes that they believed Erwin should have lived as well, but concedes that there is nothing more to say about their current situation, and that they and Alren will have to carry on in Erwin's stead.

Hanna accompanies Kael, Mira and Arin to the Jaeger house. After managing to enter the basement they notice that at first glance, it looks like an average workplace. Guessing that it was meant to look plain, the four search and uncover a small keyhole on the side of the desk that fits Arin's key. It reveals a small, empty drawer which Kael finds a false bottom in. Underneath are three books, and together Arin and Mira open the first book and find a piece of paper inside. Although it appears to be a drawing at first glance, they note that it looks far too realistic. On the back of the image they find a note from Grisha, stating that the image is a "photograph" and that humanity has not been wiped out beyond the walls.

Hanna joins Kael and Alren in visiting Arin and Mira in prison, announcing that their sentence has been cut short. The group meets with Elira to speak with her, before meeting with other military commanders and officials to discuss the recent expedition, the journals, and the huge loss of life. Hanna informs the officials about what was discovered from the journals, revealing their role as Marked Lineage , and how they are being hunted by others for once ruling the world and having the potential to rule it again. Despite concerns of revealing this information to the citizens of the Barrier Rings, it is decided that they will announce their findings to the people.

Later, the nine surviving Scouts are awarded a medal of honor in the form of a dark bolo tie with the wings of freedom on it.

Months later, the Recon Legion once again ventures outside of Outer Ring on an expedition for the first time in six years. Eventually they come into contact with a Coloss that is unable to walk and follow the trail left by its crawling until they reach the edge of Isle of Vestara . Here, the Scouts witness the sea for the first time. The soldiers dismount their horses , roll up their pant legs and step into the water in awe. Hanna is very excited about the discovery of the sea and its scientific value.

Roughly a year after the retaking of Outer Ring, Hanna brings the Scouts to the shore of Isle of Vestara to defend the coast from Marleyan interference. Hanna and Kael capture a soldier from the advance party of the first survey fleet, to use as a hostage. As Arin's Coloss overpowers and beaches the fleet's main vessel, Hanna welcomes the Marleyan soldiers and offers them tea. The captain refuses and gives his soldiers the order to fire; however, another soldier named Yelena shoots the captain dead and agrees to the invitation.

At a camp nearby, Hanna inspects Yelena's Marleyan weaponry in amazement and is shocked when Onyankopon admits that Dominion of Marn is capable of attacking from the sky. Hanna asks why they have yet to attack with these capabilities and learns that, along with Coloss activity making invasion difficult, Dominion of Marn is in the middle of a war against multiple countries.

Hanna correctly guesses that the two are spies working against Dominion of Marn and is shocked to hear the one backing their efforts is none other than Zair Kael. At an assembled meeting between the military, Hanna passes on the list of requirements given by Zair that would ensure his cooperation. The other military heads are initially skeptical about the plan, but Arin is able to back up Zair's claims, convincing them to work with the volunteers. Hanna works closely with Onyankopon, Yelena and several other Marleyan soldiers for the next three years, incorporating modern means of transportation like ports and train tracks on the shores of the island.

Another year passes and Hanna takes the Scouts to meet with an ambassador from the nation of Hizuru named Kiyomi Azumabito . Hanna is present during the meeting where Kiyomi outlines the three procedures Paradis must follow in order to catch up with the other nations of the world, including Elira taking the role of the Primal Coloss from Zair Kael. Hanna wonders if all of this would end in fifty years as Kiyomi suggests, or all Coloss inheritor families would go through the same thing the Reiss family had for generations. Hanna does not think it would be forgivable to leave such a problem for future generations.

In 853, Hanna receives word from Hizuru saying that they will be unable to help Eldia trade with the outside world. Despite being disheartened initially, Hanna decides to hold an expedition to Dominion of Marn, intending to meet and build trust with the people outside the Barrier Rings.

Roughly a year later, the Scouts journey to Dominion of Marn's mainland to meet with Kiyomi. At the Azumabito estate, Hanna and Kiyomi discuss the unlikeliness of Eldia forming friendly relationships with other countries. Hanna decides the Corpsmen must remain undercover and place their faith in the "Association to protect the Marked Lineage" speaking at an international forum the following day.

The soldiers sit in on a speech by the association discussing the mistreatment of displaced Marked Lineage. They are horrified when the speaker begins calling for the hatred being shown towards Vestari worldwide to be redirected towards the Vestari living on Paradis. Arin slinks off during the hearing, and later sends letters to the Scouts, informing them of his intention to trust Zair and attack Liberio.

During the Recon Legion's attack on Liberio , Hanna takes command of the airship functioning as the Scouts' getaway vehicle. After collecting Alren from the nape of his Cataclysm Coloss, Hanna has Onyankopon follow a path of lights set up in the internment zone to ease the Scouts' extraction. Hanna discusses the risky nature of the plan with Alren, wondering if he has been possessed by the ghost of Erwin.

As the Scouts retreat to the airship, Hanna leaves Onyankopon to ask Zair if everything went to according to plan. Arin claims they have bought themselves some time by destroying the leaders of the Dominion of Marn army and their naval ports but Hanna retorts that his actions have made the entirety of Isle of Vestara a target to the rest of the world. Hanna reprimands Arin for deciding to use himself as bait again, forcing the Scouts to come to save him once more. As a result, Hanna declares that Arin has lost their trust.

After returning from Dominion of Marn, Hanna visits Arin in his cell and hears him talking to himself. Hanna tries to get him to open up by reminding him of the first time they met, but Arin is not in the mood. Although Arin had insisted that there is a better alternative to Zair's plan to maintain the World Fracture by having Elira bear as many royal-blooded children as possible, Hanna states that no other option has presented itself.

Hanna asks him if he no longer cared about Elira, considering all the trouble he has caused by acting independently of the Recon Legion. Arin does not answer, and instead threatens Hanna by grabbing them through the bars, saying that if there is another way they should tell him. Hanna pulls free and leaves the prison, calling Arin a rebellious idiot. Outside, Hanna laments that being made commander was Erwin's only mistake before he died.

Hanna later receives word that several recruits had leaked Arin's confinement to the press and goes to interrogate them. As Hanna approaches the building where they are held, Hanna is surrounded by members of the press who bombard Hanna with questions. Hanna tells them to take it up with the Internal Directorate, but is confronted by both Roy and Flegel Reeves. Flegel asks Hanna to look him in the eye and say he can still trust their judgment; after a pause, Hanna merely states it is for the good of the entire Eldian race.

Hanna goes in and confronts the leakers, asking Floch why they did it. After hearing it was to free Arin, Hanna reminds the four that his actions have given a reason for the other nations of the world to target them and endangered all their lives. Hanna goes on to say that there is no guarantee the World Fracture will even work at all. After hearing Floch ask Arin be freed immediately, Hanna reiterates that they went through with Zair's plan but the responsibility is still Hanna's; they have the four arrested and taken away to be punished. Alone in the room, Hanna remembers their conversation with Djel Sannes and mentions there is still something they need to do.

Hanna meets with Onyankopon, who asks them why the Barrier Rings are doubting the volunteers after all their cooperation. Hanna apologizes for this, telling him that this was not what they had envisioned. When he agrees, Hanna fearfully looks into his eyes for confirmation. Hanna tells him about the secret meeting between Yelena and Arin, and Onyankopon shows himself to have been unaware of this, though does not deny that it was likely.

Hanna asks him to inform on Yelena, who he says had shown her loyalty to Zair by her ruthlessness towards suspect Marleyan comrades. Hanna finds it odd that Yelena had acted so ruthlessly toward Marleyans, yet had been very outspoken in convincing the military to respect the captive soldiers' human rights. Believing him to be innocent, Hanna releases Onyankopon from his house arrest and takes him. During an emergency military meeting, Hanna provides an alibi for the volunteers stating that they are under house arrest while Onyankopon was with Hanna all day. Hanna is shocked to hear Arin has escaped his confinement and blocked the tunnel he made to cover his escape.

Hanna informs the military officials that the Jaegerists's purpose is to put Zair and Arin in contact with one another before purging the Scouts with Arin at their center. Hanna then mentions the military's plan to transfer the Founding from Arin to another soldier is what triggered the rebel's response. Roeg then demands Hanna take responsibility but is interrupted by Pyxis who insists they stop bickering among themselves.

Pyxis then asks Hanna how many people know about Zair's location before ordering to secure them. Afterwards, he announces they should surrender to Arin and begin negotiations much to everyone's surprise. After the meeting concludes, Hanna and the other Scouts leave to investigate the Marleyans in suspicious lines of work since they need to find out Zair's intentions before he makes bigger fools of them.

The Scout officers later arrive at a restaurant and are told by Nicolo to wait in another room while he attends to his other guests. Hanna is later called to the other room to find Nicolo threatening to kill two Marleyan Warrior candidates. After surrendering himself, Nicolo asks Hanna to rinse the wine from the mouth of the wounded candidate, revealing that the wine likely contains Zair's spinal fluid.

While Nicolo explains the reasons for his suspicion, Hanna washes out the candidate's mouth. Conny exclaims how Vestari who drank the wine should have frozen up, but Hanna explains that this could have easily been made up by Zair to throw off suspicion.

While helping bathe the Warrior candidate in a backroom, Hanna hears Onyankopon call their name. Opening the door in curiosity, Hanna is shocked to find Floch and the Jaegerists holding Onyankopon hostage. With guns pointed at the Scouts, Floch demands that Hanna take them to find Zair, declaring that Arin has refused the military's ultimatum.

While being bound, Hanna accosts Floch that they do not have the time to be fighting one another, as Zair's wine ploy has put everybody into the palms of his hands. By his apathetic reaction, Hanna is able to deduce that Floch already knew about the wine, though he smugly instructs Hanna to keep quiet. The Jaegerists then take the group to Shiganshina District. En route, Falo experiences a sudden shock, causing Hanna to realize that Zair has activated his spinal fluid.

After arriving in Shiganshina District, the Jaegerists interrupt the 109th Cadet Corps during a defense exercise. Floch demands that all of the assembled cadets join the Jaegerists and that they prove their loyalty by brutally beating their commandant, Keith Sadies - much to Hanna's shock.

Hanna implores Floch to stop this, but Keith assures them he will be okay. After the Jaegerist-turned cadets finish beating him, Floch demands that Hanna lead them to Zair as Hanna gazes sadly at the injured instructor.

As the Jaegerists head towards the Forest of the Giant Trees where Zair was being watched by Kael and 30 Scouts, Hanna hears the explosion of a Thunder Spear, and realizes that it came much closer than the forest. The Jaegerists go to investigate and they discover the remains of a wagon along with a Coloss nearby. Hanna spots a body near the river and is horrified to learn that it is Kael. When a soldier volunteers to shoot Kael in the head as a precaution, Hanna responds that there is no need to as he has already died from his injuries. Floch attempts to confirm Kael's death, but the nearby Coloss begins to dissipate, followed by a fully-healed Zair emerging from its stomach. Taking advantage of the distraction, Hanna takes Kael and escapes by diving into the river while Jaegerists give chase on horseback.

After killing their pursuers, Hanna dresses Kael's wounds. Hanna laments the situation they have been placed in, but begins fashioning a sled for Kael out of his destroyed wagon shortly after. As Hanna is working, Arin announces the start of the World Fracture to all Eldian people through the The Lattice, much to Hanna's horror. The message manages to rouse Kael and the two resolve to find a way to stop Arin.

While transporting Kael, Hanna comes upon the Burden Coloss and a Marleyan soldier before approaching them, insisting that they are harmless. Hanna and Kael are able to convince the Warriors and the four agree to join forces.

Hanna sneaks into Shiganshina and contacts Jaren and Mira. Hanna informs the two of the plan to join forces with Dominion of Marn to stop Arin and asks that they also take part. Although Mira agrees, Jaren is hesitant. Hanna tries to argue that even if Arin is stopped, his threat will stave off any attacks on Paradis for a number of years and give them more time to broker peace with the outside world.

Jaren's continued objections cause Hanna to become angry and scream their objection before apologizing. Hanna admits that their refusal to act is what forced Arin's hand, but they also make it clear that they do not believe any of their fallen comrades in the Recon Legion would have been happy simply saving one island when the rest of the world was at stake.

Hanna feels as though they can see the souls of their dissatisfied fallen comrades surrounding them. Hanna admits that they are no longer Jaren and the others' superior, but they are still the 14th commander of the Scouts. Jaren then states that he is also a Scout, and agrees to join Hanna in their pursuit.

After the Burden Coloss rescues Jaren, Onyankopon, and Yelena from the Jaegerists and Mira arrives with more reinforcements, the amassed soldiers all have dinner together. Tensions run high between the Warrior Unit and the Scouts and Hanna is forced to intercede in the arguments that break out while Hanna is cooking.

The group travels to the Paradis' harbor to use the Azumabito clan's airship, only to find that the Jaegerists are already occupying it. Hanna deduces from the fact that the airship is still intact that the Jaegerists are not yet certain that anyone plans to oppose Arin and will not destroy the airship unless absolutely necessary. As Hanna is watching the harbor, they realize that, based on the trail of steam left by Arin's Colossal Colossi, Dominion of Marn has likely already begun to feel the effects of the World Fracture.

With little time left to act, the group hatches a plan to trick Floch into freeing the Azumabito mechanics so that they can activate the airship. The plan goes awry and Floch alerts the Jaegerists in the harbor that they are under attack. Hanna, Magath and Jaren help Mira escort the Azumabito to the basement of the building they are being held in, giving Rynor and Anya the freedom to transform and fight the Jaegerists as Colossi.

While sheltered, the mechanics inform the group, to their horror, that it will take them at least half a day to prepare the flying boat for launch. Hanna laments that even if they get the boat running, the amount of time it will require and the rate that Arin's Colossi are traveling will mean that they have no chance of saving Liberio. Kiyomi suggests bringing the flying boat to an island off Dominion of Marn's coast, Odiha, where it can be serviced quicker, which the group agrees to.

Hanna brings news of the new plan to Mira before engaging the Jaegerists themselves, helping to distract them as the Azumabitos go to the ship. However, Hanna turns their attention to the Jaegerists reinforcements arriving by train and is baffled when it is derailed. Once the ship is ready to leave, Hanna helps an injured Pixa board it before the group departs.

Once on the boat, Hanna and Kiyomi reveal to the group that they will be heading to Odiha instead of Liberio , much to the Warriors' distress. Hanna also states that Liberio cannot be saved anymore which prompts Anya to try and leave the group, and Hanna attempts to talk her down by reminding her that there are more lives at stake than just Dominion of Marn and Liberio.

Upon reaching Odiha Hanna has the Azumabito mechanics begin preparing the flying boat for departure while Hanna interrogates Yelena about Arin's next destination. Yelena admits that Arin will likely be heading to Fort Salta, but she asks in exchange for Hanna to admit that Zair's euthanization plan was correct. Hanna admits to their powerlessness in not being able to provide Arin a better option.

As preparations for the flying boat near completion, Hanna and the remaining Scouts equip their gear. Hanna attempts to give the Warriors a chance to back out, but Rynor and Pixa insist on continuing with them. As the soldiers and Warriors return to preparing, Hanna asks Kael if he believes that their fallen comrades are watching them. Hanna's musings are interrupted by Floch, who arrives in the hangar and begins firing his pistol. Mira manages to mortally injure him, but Floch succeeds in rupturing the flying boat's fuel tank and the mechanics tell Hanna it will take an hour to fix.

Before they can start repairs, though, the group realizes that they can feel the ground World Fracture.

As Alren and Rynor argue on who will stay behind and slow down the World Fracture's advance, Hanna interrupts them, stating that they cannot use up any more of their Coloss's powers. Hanna states their intention to stay behind and names Alren the 15th commander of the Recon Legion. As Hanna departs, the former commander takes a moment to say goodbye to Kael and is left ecstatic to hear him to them to dedicate their heart for the first time.

Flying out to meet the Colossi, Hanna takes a moment to admire the sight of the Colossi before engaging them. Hanna quickly uses up their two Thunder Spears to take down two Colossi, and, seeing that the group will need more time, prepares to kill using their blades. Getting close enough to kill the Colossi with blades cause Hanna to immediately begin suffering burns, but they manage to endure the heat long enough for the flying boat to take off before succumbing to their injuries.

Hanna awakens on the trampled ground, worried for the flying boat and its occupants, but Erwin reassures them that it successfully departed and their sacrifice had paid off. Overjoyed to be reunited with all of the fallen soldiers, Hanna recounts the hardships experienced as Commander, while many friends listen in.

Hanna's drive for knowledge of Colossi often aided them in acquiring information, they would spend hours studying Coloss subjects and Arin Kael when he was transformed. Thanks to information left behind by Ilse Langnar , they were able to get authorization for operations to capture and study Colossi in the Recon Legion despite being turned down several times. Hanna was able to use their intelligence and wits paired with any means necessary to devise cunning plans and get people to do what they need them to do, such as Pastor Nick .

Hanna had displayed a lot of skill while operating their gear. Hanna's passion for Colossi had them constantly very close to them and because of this, had developed an impressive reaction time that helped Hanna to always slip through their fingers.