Jaren Kirel is a member of the Recon Legion, ranking 6th among the 104th Cadet Corps.

Jaren Kirel ( ジャン・キルシュタイン Jan Kirushutain ) is a graduate of the 104th Cadet Corps , among whom he ranked the 6th best. Jaren hails from Middle Ring's Trost District , and joined the military with hopes of living a peaceful life within the walls as part of the Internal Directorate Regiment , but would later find himself joining the Recon Legion .

Jaren is a young man with short, light ash-brown hair with the sides and back trimmed shorter; making them a darker hue. He has small, intense light-brown eyes and is said to have the same vicious look as Arin does in his eyes. Jaren is of average height and muscular build. He has a scowl similar to Arin's but is said to have a long face (a "horse face"). He is often seen wearing the typical uniform of the Recon Legion worn with an olive-gray button-up shirt underneath.

His casual attire usually consists of a white button-up shirt, dark pants, and a dark-brown vest.

Four years later, he has grown a goatee and his hair is now longer. He has also grown to be rather tall as an adult, standing 190 centimeters. While infiltrating Dominion of Marn , Jaren wears a black Recon Legion uniform with anti-personnel omni-directional mobility gear .

Jaren has a blunt personality. He holds no restraint when it comes to speaking his mind, even when he knows it would not be wise to do so or when it could spark conflict. Jaren is also pragmatic: he has a strong aversion to exposing himself to dangerous situations, and has openly admitted his desire to join the Internal Directorate Regiment is due to wanting an easy and safe life.

During his time as a cadet, Jaren was extremely hot-headed, easily becoming frustrated and quick to resort to violence when pushed. Jaren was also very cynical about defeating the Colossi, believing that humanity has no chance against them. He openly mocked more idealistic individuals like Arin, and saw resisting the Colossi as a hopeless cause.

Despite his shortcomings, Marco describes Jaren as a natural leader, being able to understand others and assess situations well because of his flaws. Indeed, during the struggle for Trost , Jaren proves capable of leading his fellow soldiers when they are left confused and leaderless, and rallies Alren and Rynor in an attack on the Mimic Coloss, knowing that not fighting her would endanger the rest of the Recon Legion.

Although he presents himself as self-centered, Jaren places high value on the lives of his comrades, and is ashamed and horrified when he must leave helpless allies behind to save himself and others. He was also willing to risk his life even if just to slow down the Mimic Coloss, as refusing to do so would have certainly resulted in countless more deaths. Jaren later criticized Erwin's plan of withholding information from his subordinates out of fear that there was a spy among them, feeling that the plan did not justify the lives lost because of it.

Jaren's first instinct is to always see life through cautious and doubtful eyes. He was hesitant to accept Alren and Rynor's plan of having the Vanguard Coloss fight for them.

Jaren hails from Middle Ring's peaceful town of Trost . Though he lived a relatively normal childhood under the loving care of his mother, Jaren had always wished to live the comfortable life of a proud Internal Directorate soldier in the inner district of Inner Ring.

After coming of age, Jaren enlists into the military, joining what would be the 104th Cadet Corps . On the day of his enlistment, Jaren admits his desire of joining the Internal Directorate , and receives a headbutt from Keith Sadies for his troubles.

That night, Jaren overhears Arin Kael talking about his desire to join the Recon Legion and criticizes him for the decision, but apologizes after seeing that his words have upset Arin. As the cadets file out of the mess hall, Jaren sees Mira and, immediately taking a liking to her, tries to talk to her but she immediately blows him off in favor of talking to Arin. Devastated, Jaren develops a grudge against Arin.

The following night, after performing well during his first day of omni-directional mobility gear aptitude training, Jaren is approached by Arin for tips on how to maintain balance, but only ridicules him for his poor performance.

Over the course of training, Jaren and many other cadets begin slacking off in all areas except for those which will be absolutely necessary to graduate in the top 10, including hand-to-hand combat lessons.

On another night, Jaren brags to his friends about the ways he utilizes his ODM gear, joking that they should refrain from telling his secrets to others so that he will not face extra competition for a place in the top 10 graduates. His joke annoys Arin, who criticizes the idea of improving one's Coloss -killing skills in order to get a position in the military farther away from the Colossi. As their argument becomes increasingly aggressive, Jaren finally loses his temper and gets physical with Arin, prompting Arin to disarm him by kicking out one of his legs. Their fight is interrupted by Instructor Sadies, and Arin and Jaren agree to finish their fight later. This motivates Jaren to start taking his training more seriously.

Jaren performs well during his training, motivated by his ambitious dream of ranking amongst the top 10 to join the Internal Directorate Regiment and his desire to outdo Arin.

As part of the 104th, Jaren succeeds in ranking in the top 10 of its graduates, placing just under Arin and coming in at sixth. After the graduation ceremony, Jaren, proud of his accomplishment and eager to join the Internal Directorate, gets into an altercation with Arin. Fancying himself a realist, Jaren's ideals bring him to blows with the more idealistic Arin, who criticizes Jaren as a coward.

In the year 848, Jaren and his fellow cadets embark on a navigation training exercise to learn how to sustain themselves in times of peace, during which he and Arin continually get at each other's throats.

During the night, the group is ambushed while they sleep. Held at gunpoint, they are unable to do anything as the thieves carry off their ODM gear and Christa Lenz . Marco Bodt suggests abandoning the mission and getting help from Sadies, but Arin convinces the group to help him chase down the thieves before they can get away. Sera suggests using a higher vantage point to look for the kidnappers, and the group is able to successfully locate where the thieves are camping for the night.

The group devises a plan to confront the kidnappers. After Conny and Sera successfully block off the kidnappers' route out of the forest, Marco is able to determine which of their carriages they are carrying the cadets' stolen goods in, and alerts Jaren and Arin so that they can attack. When Jaren and Arin are able to recover the cadets' ODM gear, but not Christa, they use their gear to continue their pursuit. The group confronts the kidnappers again, but are left unable to fight when the men begin threatening Christa's life. Helpless, they are forced to hand over their gear again, only to be saved by the timely arrival of Thomas ' group, who successfully ambush and capture the attackers.

In the year 849, the 104th holds an omni-directional mobility gear drill in Jaren's hometown, Trost District . Although other cadets hailing from the district take the opportunity to visit their families, Jaren vehemently refuses to even discuss his family with his friends.

During one of the corps' drills that Commander Dot Pyxis is observing, Jaren attempts to impress the commander by racking up a large number of Coloss kills, leading his team away from their posts in the process. However, each of Jaren's prospective kills is stolen from him by his fellow cadets.

After the drill, Jaren confronts Conny and Sera for stealing his Coloss kills. Their argument quickly threatens to come to blows, despite Rynor trying to break them up, as both sides trade insults, until they are interrupted by Pyxis, who suggests that they settle their disagreement with a cooking match that he will judge. Although Jaren is hesitant, he is quickly goaded into accepting the challenge by Conny and Sera.

Jaren enlists his teammates Alren and Anya to help him hunt a colossal boar living in the woods outside of Trost, believing that serving meat will ensure his victory. However, Sera and her team have the same idea, and manage to find the boar first. Although Jaren's team tries to stop them from securing the boar first, they fail and Sera succeeds in killing the boar, to Jaren's ire.

Later that evening, Jaren contemplates how to beat Sera's boar meat when his mother arrives, asking why he has not visited her. Embarrassed, Jaren urges his mother away before finally yelling at her to leave when she continues to act motherly towards him in front of the others. Dejected, Jaren's mother leaves, and Arin suggests Jaren should be nicer to his mother.

As the cooking competition draws near, Jaren proposes he, Alren and Anya should steal meat from their superiors' storeroom. Alren freaks out at the thought of stealing and flees in a hysterical panic, and winds up slipping on the stairs, injuring his legs. In no condition to be stealing anything, Alren opts out of Jaren's plan, as does Anya, who states getting caught is not worth winning a competition.

Jaren decides to try stealing the meat on his own, determined to win the cook-off and prove he is not a mama's boy. As he nears the storeroom, Jaren's superior finds him and delivers a bag, stating it is from Jaren's mother. Jaren opens the bag, finding it to be a homemade omelet. Jaren remembers all the times he and his mother have been there for each other and realizes how much she means to him. With new-found determination, Jaren begins cooking.

When the time comes for the competition, Jaren presents his dish: an omelet. The audience and Pyxis are taken aback by Jaren's simple dish, but Pyxis proceeds to eat it, regardless. With his meal finished, Pyxis announces Jaren the victor of the cook-off. Jaren encourages a dejected Sera, and the two make peace. With a new day dawning upon the cadets, Jaren muses that he will pay his mother a visit.

Following the second attack of the Cataclysm Coloss , Jaren, along with the rest of the 104th Cadet Corps, are sent to the front lines to deal with the Colossi that have begun entering the city. Only one day away from joining the Internal Directorate Regiment, Jaren panics, and regrets the timing of the attack on Trost.

Later, Jaren is among the cadets that are left unable to evacuate from the battle, as their equipment have run out of gas. Although Conny suggests that they make a last ditch attempt to reach the military headquarters and resupply, Jaren points out that they have no one to lead them, and begins lamenting what a boring life he has led.

Once Mira arrives and decides to make a last ditch charge for the HQ, Jaren joins her in rallying the soldiers present to attack. As the soldiers begin to advance, Jaren advises his allies to keep any engagements short, so as not to waste gas. However, Jaren soon realizes that there is no way to reach the headquarters without sacrificing some of the soldiers on the way. One of his fellow cadets runs out of gas and is stranded, and against although Jaren advises against it, other soldiers go to try to rescue him. As the would-be rescuers and captured and devoured along with Tom, Jaren decides to capitalize on the situation by leading the remaining recruits to reach the headquarters while the Colossi are distracted.

Reaching the headquarters, Jaren is horrified by his decision to exploit his comrades' deaths, before attacking the supply soldiers hiding in the building, telling them their inaction is what led to the soldiers' deaths. He is interrupted by the arrival of Colossi outside the building, attracted to the large number of humans that have gathered. Losing hope that beating the Colossi is impossible, Jaren is left stunned at the arrival of an abnormal that proceeds to fight off the Colossi. Mira, Alren, and Conny arrive in short order, explaining that the abnormal is helping them.

In need of a way to clear out the Colossi that have infiltrated the headquarters' supply room, Jaren and his comrades search the building for weapons, eventually finding buckshot rifles amid the Internal Directorate Regiment's supplies. Alren devises a plan to clear out the Colossi in the supply room using the rifles to blind them so that others can cut their napes. Jaren is among the seven soldiers selected to slay the Colossi after they have been blinded. The plan succeeds, and all of the cadets are able to resupply. As they are resupplying, Marco compliments Jaren on his leadership skills, explaining that Jaren's lack of strength combined with his good judgment make him an ideal leader. Jaren is less than convinced.

After resupplying, Jaren prepares to leave with his fellow cadets, but is distracted when Mira and Alren go to observe the rampaging Coloss . He, Rynor, Bertholdt and Anya follow, and are greeted by the sight of the Coloss being cannibalized by its fellow Colossi. Rynor suggests helping the abnormal Coloss out, but Jaren is unwilling to risk his life for a Coloss, and is unconvinced by Rynor's argument that it could be used as an ally. Fortunately, they do not have to because the Coloss breaks itself free in order to attack another Coloss, collapsing soon after. As an unconscious Arin emerges from the Coloss's nape, Jaren is left stunned by the knowledge that Arin was responsible for the rampage her just witnessed.

Jaren, Anya, Rynor and Bertholdt are put on standby with their fellow cadets, and are ordered not to tell anyone else about what they witnessed. Jaren's fellow cadets are concerned by Mira's absence, worried that she injured herself while leaving the headquarters. Jaren refuses to answer their questions, although he freely admits that he does not expect the military to be able to keep what has transpired covered up for long. Hearing an explosion coming from the Wall, Jaren and the others who witnessed Arin's transformation recognize what is happening and immediately go to investigate.

During the mission to seal Middle Ring using Arin's Coloss form, Jaren, Conny, and Anya are given orders to lure Colossi close to the Wall so that they can be killed using cannon fire. However, while they are working, Jaren's ODM gear breaks and he is left stranded in the middle of the city. Taking shelter inside of an abandoned building, Jaren spots a nearby corpse equipped with gear. Waiting until there are no Colossi nearby, Jaren attempts to take the corpse's gear for himself, but has a hard time getting it off the body. Jaren finally manages to equip the gear while Anya, Conny, and Marco distract approaching Colossi, and despite having a difficult time controlling it, manages to use the gear to maneuver his way to safety atop the Wall.

Two days after the successful sealing of Middle Ring, Jaren is among the soldiers who help remove bodies from Trost, and comes upon Marco's lifeless body. Shocked and horrified, Jaren tries to ask other soldiers if they saw what had happened to him, but is stopped by a nearby nurse who insists that Jaren identify the body and continue to work.

Later, he and the rest of the 104th Cadets burn the corpses of their fallen comrades in a bonfire. Watching the bones of his friends burn, Jaren remembers Arin's speech and Marco's compliment about his strengths. Mourning Marco's death and internalizing his words of encouragement, Jaren asks the other cadets which branch of the military they are planning to join. Against his own wishes and fears, Jaren tearfully declares that he will join the Recon Legion . During graduation, despite fearing what might happen to him in the future as he would inevitably encounter more Colossi, Jaren joins the Recon Legion instead of the Internal Directorate Regiment.

After joining the Recon Legion, Jaren confronts Arin regarding his role as humanity's savior, declaring that he is putting his trust in him as he does not wish to die. Jaren participates in the 57th Expedition of the Recon Legion.

Not long into the expedition, Jaren encounters the Mimic Coloss . Cooperating with Alren and Rynor, Jaren engages the Mimic Coloss, believing that if he does not at least slow it down, it will continue to wipe out more and more soldiers. The three succeed in confronting the Coloss, but are quickly overpowered and are nearly killed, though they all escape with their lives. Following the battle, Jaren desperately tries to locate his lost horse. With only Rynor's horse present, someone would most certainly need to be left behind. Luckily, Christa arrives with Jaren's horse in tow.

Making their way to a Forest of Giant Trees , Jaren and the others are ordered to perch among its tall branches to distract Colossi from entering while Orwin Hale handles the Mimic Coloss. Jaren is surprised to see how the Colossi learn to climb the trees in order to reach them. While they wait, Alren confides to Jaren his belief that their commander had suspected a spy amongst them but declined to reveal this knowledge. Jaren questions the morality of such a decision, but Alren defends Erwin, stating that it was a necessary risk, and the lives it cost are justified if gambles are ever to succeed, though Jaren has his doubts.

After the expedition fails, Jaren returns safely to Middle Ring. Days later, due to having both similar eyes and demeanor, he is chosen to pose as Arin during his handover to the Internal Directorate, leaving the real Arin free to help in the final attempt to capture the Mimic Coloss.

When the Mimic Coloss appears and begins fighting with Arin, Jaren breaks cover in front of the Internal Directorate and heads off to the battle with Erwin's permission. Along the way he notes with disgust that the youngest members of the Internal Directorate are standing around too shocked to do anything and he could have been one of them.

He finds Arin pinned beneath rubble and learns from Alren that Anya is the Mimic Coloss. Jaren yells at Arin for being unable to transform when everyone, including himself, is counting on him. When Arin does not respond, Jaren leaves to fight the Mimic Coloss and he helps lead her into a trap set by Hanna . Though it only holds her a short time, it is enough for Arin to finally transform into a Coloss.

Jaren watches the two Colossi fight along with the rest of the Recon Legion and witnesses Anya's defeat and subsequent encasing herself in crystal. After her crystal has been pulled free for examination, he pounds at it with his weapon, breaking the blade, and yells at her for not talking with them.

Following the battle, he and Alren are brought in for questioning by the Internal Directorate. On the way, Jaren wonders whether abandoning one's humanity is really the only way to win, and whether it would be a victory if Arin did destroy all the Colossi.

Jaren joins the main body of Scouts in Trost District and is present when Phil reports to Dot Pyxis that there is no breach inside Middle Ring. When he hears that three additional cadets from the 104th can change into Colossi, he demands to know who they are, but Erwin calms him down.

He joins the combined military force of the Scouts, Internal Directorate, and the Citadel Guard in a long range scouting formation to a forest of giant trees where Rynor and Bertholdt are suspected of taking the kidnapped Arin. Jaren is among the Scouts who enter the forest to search for him. He and the other members of the 104th encounter Imera in her Coloss form and watch her capture Elira Rhos in her mouth before fleeing. Jaren calls for everyone to pursue her.

At the edge of the forest, Rynor transforms into the Aegis Coloss , carrying Bertholdt, Arin, Imera, and Elira on his shoulders as the soldiers pursue them. When Rynor protects Bertholdt and Arin by covering them with his hands, Jaren grapples on to the Aegis Coloss and joins the other members of the 104th in trying to talk down Bertholdt and Rynor by asking if their friendship had meant anything. He calls out how they shared the same roof for three years and how the other cadets used Bertholdt's odd sleeping positions to predict the weather.

Though Bertholdt breaks down beneath the weight of his guilt, any possible resolution is interrupted by the arrival of Erwin and the horde of Colossi chasing him and the rest of the military. Jaren and the others have to jump off the Aegis Coloss, which charges into the horde.

He is shocked by the carnage in front of him as the Colossi immobilize and chew on Rynor, but Erwin tells him they are just getting started. Erwin orders the soldiers to retrieve Arin and Jaren joins the charge along with Mira. She tries to free Arin, but is grabbed by a Coloss when she misses her attack on Bertholdt. Jaren stabs it in an eye to free her.

The soldiers retreat when Arin is freed, but Rynor begins throwing Colossi at them. One of them lands directly in front of Jaren, knocking him off his horse and causing him to land hard on the ground where he passes out. In the ensuing chaos, Alren tries to protect him. As the situation looks desperate, Arin punches the Coloss attacking him and Mira and triggers something that causes all the other mindless Colossi present to tear it apart.

Erwin calls for the soldiers to retreat and Jaren is among those who return alive, though the Recon Legion loses over half of its veteran soldiers. Back in Trost District, Jaren and Alren share a theory that Arin was the reason no Colossi attacked them on the way back. Jaren tells Arin that his rescue puts him in a tough spot. Whether those soldiers died for nothing will depend on him.

Some time later, Jaren is selected to be a member of the new Kael Squad assigned to safeguard Arin and Elira. While the squad is stationed in their isolated forest cabin, Jaren and Arin bicker again like old times in the Cadet Corps. There, Jaren assists Kael , Hanna, and their squads in overseeing Arin's Coloss experiments.

However, Orwin Hale sends a message warning the cabin's inhabitants that the government is freezing all Scout activity outside the Barrier Rings and is demanding that Arin and Elira be handed over. Kael and Hanna abandon the cabin with their squads, and Jaren goes with Kael and his squad to Trost District where they hope to avoid the Internal Directorate.

In anticipation of trouble, Jaren reluctantly disguises himself as Arin while Alren does the same as Elira, to serve as a distraction and bait while the real Arin and Elira are transported separately. He and Alren are kidnapped by members of the Reeves Company , much to Jaren's dismay, who did not want to serve as Arin's body double a second time. When the rest of the squad arrives though, they manage to subdue their kidnappers.

Shortly after, Jaren and the others hear the sound of gunshots and go to investigate. They spot the wagon carrying an unconscious Arin and Elira with Kael in pursuit. To Jaren's shock, there is another soldier tailing Kael, who aims a gun at his captain. Kael kills the soldier and orders his squad to chase the wagon and kill their opponents, given the chance. Jaren is disturbed by the order, but takes control of the wagon with Alren, on Kael's command. When Mira knocks over the soldier driving the wagon, Jaren tells her not to move, rather than taking the opportunity to kill. This gives her the opportunity she needs to knock away his blade. However, Alren shoots her before she can kill Jaren, and Kael and Sera pull the two of them to safety before the rest of Kenny 's special unit can finish them.

Back in the warehouse where Jaren and Alren had been held hostage, the squad discusses what happened. Jaren can see how distraught Alren is over having killed the other soldier, and he apologizes for not having killed her himself. He also tells Kael that he thought it was wrong to kill other people, but now he realizes it was he who was wrong. Next time, he will shoot.

When Dimo Reeves tricks two Internal Directorate of the First Interior Squad to come with him to a remote cabin, Jaren and other members of Kael Squad take them hostage at gunpoint. Jaren and the rest of the squad listen uncomfortably to the screams as Kael and Hanna conduct their interrogation. When the two are through, Jaren and the others are informed that Arin and Elira are likely being held near Rod Reiss , and will likely be eaten soon.

After the Recon Legion is accused of trying to monopolize Arin's Coloss powers, the government begins arresting all members of the organization. Jaren and the rest of Squad Kael avoid being captured, and camp out in the woods outside of Stohess. Sera warns them of approaching MPs, and the squad captures them.

As Kael interrogates the two, Jaren listens carefully to what they have to say, taking note of Marlo Freudenberg 's request to help the Scouts, and asks Kael to allow him to personally get rid of them. Resolving to test Marlo's desire to help, he takes them away from the squad and pulls a knife on them, before tripping and dropping it. Marlo takes the chance to pick up Jaren's knife but Jaren proceeds to pull a gun on him. Jaren then makes a proposition: if Marlo places his trust in him and hands over the knife, he will believe that Marlo's wish to help the Recon Legion is sincere. Marlo accepts and throws away the knife. However, Jaren is then blindsided by Hitch , who smashes him in the head with a tree branch. Marlo stops her, and Jaren tells them that Kael will accept them.

Thanks to Marlo and Hitch, Kael's squad manages to successfully destroy a Internal Directorate checkpoint. The squad takes a hostage and Jaren watches while Kael interrogates him. They are interrupted by the approach of soldiers, who turn out to be Hanna and Moblit . They inform the squad that the Recon Legion has been exonerated, and that they have a lead on Arin and Elira's whereabouts.

Jaren takes part in the assault of the Underground Chapel against the Anti-Personnel Control Squad. He first shoots flares in order to keep Kael and Mira hidden, before jumping into action with his ODM gear. Unlike his hesitation back in Trost, Jaren manages to kill his first human enemy by cutting his adversary's neck.

Kael's squad locates the cavern where Arin and Elira are, which is starting to collapse due to Rod Reiss transforming into a gigantic Coloss. Jaren helps unchain Arin while trying to explain the current situation to him. Just as Arin is freed, Jaren and Kael pull Arin out of the way of a falling boulder. As they contemplate their options, Arin begins apologizing and doubting himself. Jaren jokingly questions his abilities, but like the others, he waits for Arin to decide what action to take. Arin finally decides to transform into a Coloss and believe in himself in order to save his friends.

After Arin transforms and hardens his body to hold the falling rocks, Jaren helps Mira get Arin out of his hardened Coloss body. The squad then begins to follow Rod's Coloss, arriving in Orvud District to intercept it. As they arrive, Kael takes the opportunity to inform Elira of Erwin's plan to install her as queen, and although Jaren protests, Elira agrees to it. Jaren then attends the meeting to hear Erwin's plan to combat the Coloss.

As Rod's Coloss arrives at Inner Ring, Jaren and the rest of the squad cover themselves in water to resist the Coloss's intense heat. After destroying the Coloss's hands to make it slump, Arin, in his Coloss form, obliterates its head using concentrated gunpowder. Jaren and his squad mates target chunks of the destroyed Coloss's body, hoping to destroy Rod's human body within.

After Elira is crowned as the new queen, Jaren and Squad Kael accompany her as she goes to find Kael so she can punch him. The squad tries to talk her down, but she punches the captain as soon as she sees him. Expecting Kael to retaliate, the squad is surprised when he reacts by smiling and thanking them.

Two months later, Jaren, Alren, and Arin are talking on a farm that Elira uses as an orphanage. He tries to antagonize Arin, but is ignored. When Elira sees them, Jaren tries to convince her to give them a break. She orders them to continue carrying boxes inside, causing him to compare her to his mother.

Days later he is in the barracks eating with other soldiers. He talks with Marlo about how happy he seems about transferring to the Recon Legion even though he has never seen a Coloss, just like other soldiers that did the same, and that the new Coloss guillotine works, allowing the soldiers to retake Outer Ring. The conversation changes to Arin's memories and the nature of the Colossi, remembering Imera and Conny's mother . Jaren tells Arin that he has to focus on remembering the man that his father met years ago. He again jokes with Arin, saying that he should be head-butted by the commandant, prompting Arin to recognize the man in his memories as the commandant.

In the morning, Jaren goes with Arin, Mira, Alren, Kael, Hanna, and Sera to see the commandant. Jaren sits inside a small house with the rest of the team except Sera. He listens to the story about Grisha Jaeger and Keith Sadies without saying a word. Finally, after telling the whole story, Keith admits that he has no power and that he is just a bystander.

The night before the operation, the soldiers are having a special dinner in order to celebrate and prepare them for the operation. The dinner becomes crazier and crazier because of various reasons: first, Sera gets mad after seeing all the meat, trying to eat it all, even biting Jaren and punching Marlo.

After this, a soldier named Floch overhears Jaren badmouthing the new recruits who have transferred to the Recon Legion and jokingly confronts him, noting that they all trained together in the 104th. Floch is left uneased by Jaren's nonchalant attitude toward him, noting that the cadets who joined the scouts after graduation have changed greatly since the last time he saw them. He begins to ask what happened to them, before thinking better of it.

Later, Jaren explains Marlo why, as a rookie, he should be on the rear instead of on the front line, saying that he needs it in order to learn and survive long enough to train other soldiers. Jaren uses Arin as an example of a useless and a suicidal soldier, who charges straight into the enemy. This enrages Arin and they start fighting and insulting with nobody stopping them. Jaren shouts at Arin asking him how many times would he have died if he did not have those Coloss powers and how many times would Mira have had to save him. The fight continues until Kael steps in and knocks them both, stopping the fight.

The next morning, Jaren takes part in the operation to retake Outer Ring. After hearing the cheers of the civilians, he is one of the first that screams in joy. When the operation starts, he is with the rest of Kael Squad, riding towards Outer Ring.

On the way to Shiganshina , the soldiers are walking at night on foot through a forest on a mountain. Jaren scolds Conny for calling Arin for his name, telling him he has to assume that there is an enemy around every corner. As he is speaking, Jaren stumbles upon a slumbering Coloss and quickly alerts the rest of the scouts to it.

When they arrive at Shiganshina, Jaren switches to his ODM gear at Erwin's orders. He is covered in a hood and a cloak just like the other soldiers, so Rynor and Bertholdt cannot discover which of the soldiers is Arin. After Arin seals the hole in Outer Ring, Jaren's squad begins to return to Erwin, but stop and take up positions on the Wall before they can reach him after seeing him fire a signal flare. From there, they are able to watch as Rynor reveals himself to be hiding inside the Wall, and the Primal Coloss reveals himself with an army of Colossi.

As Arin engages Rynor in his Coloss form, Jaren and his squad wait alongside Hanna's squad for an opportunity to attack. After Arin manages to maneuver Rynor into an area of town with tall buildings, Hanna and Mira blind Rynor with their new Thunder Spears , which allows Jaren and his fellow soldiers to destroy the armor covering Rynor's nape with their Thunder Spears. When Hanna orders a second attack to destroy Rynor's nape, Jaren notices Conny and Sera hesitating, and pushes them to fight. After destroying Rynor's nape, Jaren begins gloating to Rynor's body, but the sight of Conny and Sera crying for Rynor causes him to tear up as well, though he desperately tries to convince them to cheer up. As he is yelling at them, Jaren and his comrades are caught off guard by a roar from Rynor's Coloss.

Having been informed by Alren of Bertholdt's approach, Hanna orders Jaren and his comrades to retreat before they are caught in the blast of Bertholdt's transformation. After retreating to a safe distance, Jaren and his comrades watch as Alren goes to try to negotiate with Bertholdt. When negotiations fail and Bertholdt transforms to his Coloss form, Jaren and the rest of Squad Kael take cover behind Arin's Coloss form to shield themselves from the blast. As Mira and Alren return, Jaren learns that they have no idea whether Hanna and their squad survived.

As Bertholdt begins to rampage through Shiganshina, Jaren and his squadmates ask Alren to instruct them on what to do. However, Jaren is unhappy with Alren's plan to retreat beyond the Wall and wait for Bertholdt to exhaust his energy, pointing out that Bertholdt will simply throw burning debris over the Wall where the horses and the commander's group are. Alren is overwhelmed by the pressure and passes leadership to Jaren, but even though Jaren acknowledges he can read their current situation, he will still help finding a way to get them out of this.

After sneaking around Bertholdt, Jaren has Arin attempt to attract the Cataclysm Coloss's attention away from the rest of the Scouts, but is surprised to see that Bertholdt is deliberately ignoring them. With no other option, Jaren orders a direct attack on Bertholdt, despite protests from Conny and Sera. As Arin approaches Bertholdt, Jaren and his comrades spread out and watch as Arin attempts to push Bertholdt back. For a moment, it looks as though Arin has stopped Bertholdt's advance, but Jaren and his teammates are horrified when Bertholdt calmly kicks Arin to the top of Outer Ring.

Jaren recognizes this failure comes from their lack of plan, but that they do not have much of a choice. Humanity is on the verge of defeat, and he does not think they should go down without trying to defeat the Cataclysm Coloss. He rallies his squad around him and plans to take advantage of the Thunder Spears, since the Cataclysm Coloss is unaware of their properties. He joins Conny and Sera in shouting insults at Bertholdt to get his attention so Mira can pierce his nape with the Thunder Spears. However, the Cataclysm Coloss repels them with a blast of pressurized steam. Before Jaren can formulate another attack, his group is stopped by the sight of the Aegis Coloss. Seeing that Rynor has once again recovered from his injuries, Jaren begins to lose hope and turns to Alren for advice. After hearing Alren's theory about the Cataclysm Coloss's weakness, Jaren agrees to lead Squad Kael in an attack against Rynor while Alren goes to retrieve Arin.

As he leads Squad Kael toward Rynor, Jaren orders his teammates to focus on Rynor and to trust Arin and Alren to stop Bertholdt. Jaren orders his teammates to try to keep Rynor's attention, but when Rynor ignores them, Jaren agrees with Mira that Rynor will have to be killed. As the squad only has three Thunder Spears left, Jaren devises a plan to blow open Rynor's mouth with two, before firing the third into his mouth to blow him out of his Coloss's nape. Jaren acts as bait to distract Rynor while Sera and Conny attack, but they are caught off guard when Rynor throws debris from nearby buildings at them. Jaren is injured by the attack but remains conscious to witness Hanna's return and Rynor's defeat at Mira's hands.

As Jaren's injuries are treated by Mira, Jaren watches as Hanna interrogates a captive Rynor. When Rynor refuses to give up any meaningful information, Hanna decides to execute him, but Jaren hurriedly argues that Rynor should be kept alive so that his Coloss Manifestation can be taken away with the Coloss injection. Hanna's response, that Rynor is too dangerous to be kept alive, surprises Jaren, who comments that Hanna has never been the type to simply accept not understanding something. Swayed by Jaren's words, Hanna orders Mira to retrieve the serum from Kael so that they can use it, to Jaren's relief.

As Jaren and Hanna discuss who should be given the serum, they are interrupted by Mira, who fires a signal flare, signaling that Rynor should be executed. As the flare rises into the air, Jaren notices a quadrupedal Coloss approaching Hanna. Acting quickly, Jaren manages to save Hanna from being devoured but is unable to stop the Coloss from rescuing Rynor and departing. As the Coloss retreats, Jaren angrily blames himself for letting Rynor escape death yet again, though Hanna assures him it was their choice, thus Hanna's mistake.

He comes to the rooftop with Hanna and Conny, who carries Sera on his back. Jaren is shocked after seeing Erwin and Alren, both half-dead and lying unconsciously. Then he and his comrades observe debate over who receives the serum. When Kael proclaims that he is going to inject Erwin, Jaren leaves the roof with the others, crying and saying his goodbye to his comrade. However, Kael finally decides to give Alren the serum instead. Jaren and his fellow soldiers see Alren's mindless Coloss form devouring Bertholdt. They later help Alren with getting out of his Coloss body.

Jaren joins Conny, Hanna, Mira and Floch in searching survivors in Shiganshina while Arin and Kael stay with Alren and Sera. After receiving a signal to return to the other survivors, Jaren informs Alren that they have not been able to find anyone else in the four hours since the battle ended.

After returning home victorious, Jaren accompanies Hanna to deliver Imera's letter to Elira. He then attends a meeting where he and the rest of the surviving Scouts are debriefed by Military generals and Elira.

Jaren is later seen awaiting an honorary ceremony with his fellow soldiers. When Hitch arrives, Jaren tries to tell her that Marlo died with honor, but Floch tells her that he most likely regretted his choice in his final moments. Jaren is left appalled by Floch's insensibility. He is later honored by Elira with the other Shiganshina survivors.

A year passes and the use of the Executioner from Hell clears Outer Ring from all Colossi. Jaren is among the Scouts to lead a scouting mission beyond Outer Ring, and finds a Coloss whose limbs were so small that it can only crawl. He is among the Scouts that arrive at the ocean, amazed that the water was actually salty.

Jaren is a member of a group of Scouts sent to defend the Paradis coastline from ships sent from Dominion of Marn . He witnesses Arin beaching a ship with his Coloss form and the resulting exchange between Hanna and Yelena .

Jaren helps his friends work on a railroad track while they discuss opening diplomatic relations with other nations of the world. However, Hanna arrives to inform the group that Hizuru did not gain them any allies. As the group departs by train, they discuss who should inherit Arin's Coloss.

When Mira volunteers, Jaren responds that she might not be able to due to her heritage and Ackermann lineage. He then offers himself in her place, arguing that he is smarter than Arin and has excellent judgment. However, Conny argues that Jaren's reasoning would be why he would be more valuable as a future leader for the Scouts and they could not afford to lose him after thirteen years. After hearing everyone's arguments, Arin decides not to select any of them as his successor due to valuing their friendship and wishing them all to live long lives.

Eventually, Jaren travels to Dominion of Marn with the rest of the Special Operations Squad. Initially focused on their goal of reconnaissance, he quickly becomes amazed by the difference in lifestyle in Dominion of Marn along with Conny and Sera. Jaren attends a meeting with Kiyomi Azumabito, but notices with Mira that Arin has disappeared. With the others, Jaren finds him at a refugee camp. They all take part in celebrating with one of the families residing there and are found that morning by Kael, Hanna and Onyankopon. Later, Jaren attends a gathering to hear from the Association for the Protection of Imera's Subjects and is dismayed to hear they are still viewed as devils by the majority of Dominion of Marn and the other countries represented.

Jaren participates in Arin's attack on Liberio in 854. During the battle, he alights on the edge of a building and shoots the hook of his anti-personnel omni-directional mobility gear into a Marleyan soldier to throw him off the roof. Witnessing an explosion at a nearby building, Jaren grapples his way over to find Floch with an armful of explosives. He yells at him to keep civilian losses to a minimum, but Floch is undeterred. Floch says they cannot wait inside the Barrier Rings for death, which Jaren cannot refute.

Sera and Conny report in to Jaren that all the lights are in place and ask if they are moving forward with the plan. Jaren confirms they are as long as they can disable the Forge Coloss in time. Jaren and the other Scouts watch Arin attempt to devour the holder of the Forge Coloss and the subsequent attack on Arin by the Razor Coloss. Jaren and the others jump into the fray to join Kael Acken, but are forced to take cover from gunfire from the Burden Coloss .

Jaren warns his soldiers of the incoming debris being thrown by the Primal Coloss and tries to prevent them from prematurely retaliating, but two of them are killed by the Burden Coloss's Panzer Unit . Jaren orders his soldiers to take out the Burden Coloss's machine guns. When the Burden Coloss charges at Sera for killing a member of the Panzer Unit, Jaren intervenes, intending to pay it back for nearly killing him in Shiganshina. He fires a Thunder Spear that strikes the Burden Coloss's helmet, blowing off part of the Coloss's head. Jaren calls for his squad to attack and they succeed in eliminating the Coloss's Panzer Unit.

The battered Burden Coloss stumbles off the roof and crashes to the ground below. Jaren pursues it, intending to strike a final killing blow, but a boy jumps in the way and begs him not to shoot. He attempts the final blow regardless, but a burst of steam emerges from the Burden Coloss's neck and his shot goes wide. Jaren's squad attempts to finish off Pixa when her body emerges from the Burden Coloss, but Magath and some Marleyan soldiers put up a vigorous defense and Jaren calls for his soldiers to fall back.

When the Scouts' airship arrives, Jaren orders his squad to protect it from any enemies below using all their firepower left. As the soldiers retreat, Jaren leaves Lobov to cover the rear and joins his squad on board. Sera and Conny inform him that they have six confirmed casualties on their side, which bothers him. Though Floch leads most of the soldiers in a cheer for winning the first battle for the new Eldian Empire , Jaren uses the time to consider how many more battles they will have and how many more people they will have to kill.

Without warning, a girl rolls into the cabin and fires a rifle into the group of soldiers, striking Sera. Jaren retaliates, but his shot misses when a second child pushes her out of the way. As his soldiers apprehend the two children, Jaren rushes over to Sera and calls for first aid. Floch suggests throwing the children out of the airship, but Jaren refuses. Jaren takes the children to meet Zair Kael and explains to Arin and the others how they snuck aboard and shot Sera. Shortly thereafter, Conny follows up to inform everyone that Sera has died. Jaren tells Arin that this is his fault, because he got the Scouts involved.

After returning to Paradis, the soldiers who were killed in Liberio are buried. While visiting their graves, Jaren and Conny are forced to defend Nicolo , a Marleyan prisoner-of-war, who is being harassed by another soldier. Learning that Nicolo had wanted to visit Sera's grave, they lead him to where she was buried.

Jaren meets with Mira, Conny, and Alren. He brings up the topic of the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers ' arrest, surprised that Pyxis would resort to the use of strong-arm tactics, but he supposes that it was inevitable while they are unaware of Zair's true plans and his influence on Arin. They discuss the situation regarding the Jaeger brothers and Mira still wants to believe in Arin, but Jaren points out how he has forced all of them on to the battlefield even though he once claimed they were important to him.

Jaren attends a meeting that Hanna conducts with a group of Scouts who are found to have leaked word of Arin's arrest to the public. After hearing their point of view, Hanna orders the dissidents to be confined for their insubordination, and Jaren escorts Floch to his cell.

After the Jaegerists escape from confinement, Jaren attends a meeting with the various military leaders. He is surprised by Pyxis's announcement that they should surrender to Arin and begin negotiations while ignoring the deaths of Zachary and the other victims.

Hanna takes Jaren and the other former 104th members to the restaurant where Nicolo works, and he takes them into a private dining room while he attends to his other guests. Jaren tries to take a sip of the wine stored there, but Nicolo stops him, saying that the wine would be wasted on Vestari.

Alren later calls Jaren into another room where he finds Nicolo holding Falo hostage with a knife. After Nicolo surrenders his weapon, Jaren helps restrain him while Nicolo admits that the wine likely contains Zair's spinal fluid.

Jaren slams Nicolo against the wall and demands that he explain. Nicolo then reveals Yelena's plan to serve the wine to high-ranking officers. Jaren asks if he stopped them from drinking the wine to protect them, but Nicolo is not truly certain. While trying to help rinse the wine off Falo, Jaren is caught by the Jaegerists. He tries to convince Floch that this could all be part of their enemies' plan, but Floch refuses to listen. Jaren and his comrades are taken to Shiganshina District, where they are placed in a holding cell.

While in confinement, Jaren questions Alren on why Arin would attack him and is baffled to hear it is because Arin verbally attacked Mira. However, Jaren is skeptical Arin would commit such an act unless he had an ulterior motive. The conversation is interrupted by the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers.

Jaren quickly accuses Yelena of wanting to use Eldia to get revenge for her homeland but is cut off by Greiz who begins to slander the Vestari. Yelena responds by shooting him much to the surprise of the prisoners. She then goes on to deny the previous allegation before explaining Zair's euthanization plan. However, Jaren is unconvinced since Eldia will be eventually become defenseless but Yelena insists the Origin Core will still be a deterrent. They are then interrupted by a messenger informing them about a captured infiltrator. As Yelena and the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers leave to deal with the issue, Jaren and the rest of the prisoners hear a commotion on the roof, realizing that the Colossi have started to move.

Onyankopon arrives and frees them from their cell, begging them to help defend Arin. Onyankopon claims to have had no knowledge of Yelena and Zair's euthanasia plan and although Jaren claims to believe him, he points out that helping Arin will only help them bring their plan to fruition. Alren argues that Arin will activate the rumbling instead of going through with Zair's euthanasia plan and despite his reservations, Jaren agrees to help. As the soldiers go to release the rest of the Jaegerists' prisoners, Jaren orders Nicolo to watch after Sera's family.

A group of Jaegerists try to have them detained again, but Jaren cows their leader into submission by telling him that he will be responsible for Arin's death if he stops them. He helps free the other prisoners and equips himself with a set of ODMG and enters the battle.

During the battle, the group splits up and Jaren and Conny go to aid Arin in his fight against Rynor and the Razor Coloss. They arrive in time to save Arin from being grabbed by Rynor, but are unable to stop Gara from shooting him with an anti-Coloss rifle.

Arin makes contact with Zair, activating the Origin Core and beginning the World Fracture. As Outer Ring begins to crumble, Jaren and Conny retrieve Falo Gryss from his Coloss and retreat to meet up with Alren and Mira. Jaren is left in complete shock at the idea of Arin destroying the world beyond Paradis, trying to justify it to himself by arguing that the outer world brought it on themselves by fearing and threatening the Vestari on Paradis.

To their shock, the group notices that the Pure Colossi transformed by Zair have begun attacking the Paradis soldiers. Mira points out that before they can help the soldiers, they need to decide what to do with Falo and Jaren suggests feeding him to one of the Colossi. Conny is adamant that his mother should be allowed to eat Falo and flees with the boy when the others object, leaving them to fight off the Colossi without him.

Jaren and the others return to the military headquarters and order the soldiers inside to join them on the roof with all available Thunder Spears to launch a counterattack on the Colossi. After clearing out the first wave of Colossi attacking the fortress, Jaren and the soldiers wait on the top of the building while a group led by Keith Sadies leads the rest of the Colossi in the district to the headquarters. Once the Colossi have all been attracted, Jaren and the other soldiers eliminate all of the Colossi.

After the battle, Jaren discusses the current situation with Onyankopon, informing him of Arin's plan to destroy every country outside of Paradis. Jaren is disappointed to learn that Floch is still alive, and is left flabbergasted when Floch begins arresting the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers. Jaren tries to stop Floch from firing on the Volunteers and is left stunned when Floch executes one for resisting. Although the execution leaves Jaren in a daze, he is taken aback when Floch attempts to convince him to join the Jaegerists by appealing to the selfish personality he had during his cadet days.

Jaren is left in an emotional turmoil by Floch's offer and is very tempted to join the Jaegerists despite their conflicting morals. While deliberating what to do, Jaren is contacted by Hanna and eventually consents to meeting them and Mira despite his misgivings. When Hanna reveals that they intend to join forces with Dominion of Marn to stop Arin, Jaren tries to convince Hanna to agree to Arin's plan.

Although Jaren tries to argue that there is no other option, he is silenced by Hanna's frantic insistence that there is no justification for genocide. Hanna asks Jaren if he believes that their fallen comrades would have been happy with sacrificing all of humanity to save one island and Jaren, convicted by his memories of Marco, agrees to join her in opposing Arin.

Jaren pretends to take Floch's offer and serves as a high-ranking member of the Jaegerists. When Floch decides to publicly execute Yelana and Onyankopon, Jaren is selected to be the one to kill them. After Floch announces the crimes the two are being killed for, Jaren fires four shots from his gun into the ground next to Onyankopon, signaling Pixa to come and retrieve them. Once Pixa lets them go, Jaren explains to Onyankopon that he chose to help Dominion of Marn because he felt that his fallen comrades would never forgive him if he had sat by and let the world be destroyed.

That night, the combined forces of Dominion of Marn and Paradis share a meal as they discuss how to oppose Arin. Tensions immediately run high between Jaren and Theo Magath as the latter asks if the Vestari have decided to do what is just by helping Dominion of Marn. Jaren angrily reminds him that Dominion of Marn has been the aggressor against Paradis for 100 years, and Magath retorts that Arin has proven that the world was right for the way it treated Paradis.

Jaren argues that Arin is only going to extreme measures because of Dominion of Marn's atrocious acts against Paradis and Magath reminds him that Eldia was the first to oppress Dominion of Marn during the reign of the Eldian Empire.

Before the two can argue any further, they are interrupted by Hanna, who serves dinner to all of the soldiers. However, Yelena causes even more friction by reminding Jaren that Marco was killed by Anya. Rynor defends Anya, revealing to Jaren that he ordered Marco's death to protect his and Bertholdt's identities.

Although Jaren restrains himself initially, he flies into a rage when Rynor attempts to apologize for what he did and savagely beats him. He is only stopped by Gara, who physically shields Rynor from Jaren's attacks. Gara apologizes for the crimes that the Warriors have committed and begs the Scouts to help save the world.

The following day as the group is traveling to Paradis's harbor, Jaren apologizes to Gara for accidentally hurting her and reiterates to Rynor that he does not intend to forgive him for what he has done. They arrive to find that the harbor has already been occupied by Jaegerists. As the group gears up for a confrontation Anya suggests launching an all-out attack and Mira reminds her that they cannot risk getting the Azumabito killed in the crossfire. The group gears up for a possible engagement, but Jaren and his friends are reluctant to fight their former comrades. Their discussion is interrupted by Hanna who announces to everyone's horror that Arin's Colossal Colossi have apparently already reached Dominion of Marn.

The group begins a plan to try to trick the Jaegerists into handing over the Azumabito mechanics without a fight, with Jaren on standby with Hanna and Magath in case fighting erupts. When the Jaegerists are alerted to their presence, Jaren helps escort the Azumabito to the basement of the building they are being held in so that they will be safe from the impending battle.

While sheltered the mechanics inform the group, to their horror, that it will take at least half a day to prep the flying boat for launch. Jaren is horrified to learn that they will not be able to save Liberio but Kiyomi suggests that they could get the flying boat ready faster if it was brought to Odiha.

While the mechanics go to the boat, Jaren uses his rifle to give them and his allies covering fire from various points on the battlefield. Once the boat is ready to depart the harbor, Jaren and Conny help carry an injured Rynor onto the boat.

On board the ship, Jaren and Mira are seen holding back Anya, who is in distress, after Hanna reveals that Liberio cannot be saved from the World Fracture anymore.

At some point, Arin pulls Jaren and the rest of his friends into The Lattice individually in order to speak with each of them. He reveals his true intentions, to have his friends kill him so that the outside world will be indebted to them, and wipes their memories so that they will not remember anything he has revealed until after his death.

After arriving in Odiha, Jaren helps bring the flying boat inside a hangar to be worked on. He tries to remove the explosives from the ship, but Alren recommends keeping them in case they are needed in the future.

As preparations on the flying boat reach completion, Jaren and the other soldiers equip their maneuvering gear. Preparations are interrupted by Floch, who arrives in the hangar and shoots holes in the boat's fuel tank before being mortally wounded by Mira. As the mechanics try to repair the boat, Jaren checks on Floch, and is left distressed by a final request from Floch to stop pursuing Arin.

As repairs begin on the boat, Arin's Colossi arrive in Odiha. Hanna engages the Colossi alone and sacrifices their life to hold off the Colossi long enough for the plane to depart, with Jaren and the others mourning their commander's death onboard.

En route to Arin, Jaren participates in a meeting to discuss how to deal with Arin. Kael suggests that the most likely way to stop Arin will be to kill Zair and sever his connection to the Origin Core, and Jaren promises to help achieve Kael's goal. At the thought of all the innocent lives that they have killed in order to stop the World Fracture, Jaren apologizes to Rynor for treating him so harshly, admitting that he has no right to judge him for what he did to Paradis.

The conversation is interrupted when the group is suddenly pulled into The Lattice by Arin. Jaren tries to convince Arin to end the World Fracture and let them figure out what to do next, but Arin refuses to stop the World Fracture. Seeing Arin in the distance Jaren, Mira, Alren, and Conny try to reach him but are unable to get any closer to him. Arin informs the group that he called them into The Lattice to let them know that they will have to kill him to stop the World Fracture, before sending them back to the flying boat.

As the flying boat reaches Arin it comes under fire from the Primal Coloss. Jaren and his comrades jump from the boat and use their maneuvering gear to evade the Beast's projectiles before engaging it directly. They quickly defeat the Beast, but find that Zair is not inside its nape. Realizing that they have no time to search Arin's entire Coloss for Zair, Jaren convinces Alren to transform into his Cataclysm Coloss and use the explosion to try to uncover Zair's location. Jaren and his comrades begin to retreat, but turn to see Alren being abducted by an army of Colossi which has begun generating atop Arin. They are quickly swarmed by the Colossi and Jaren notices that the Colossi seem to be coordinating their attacks. Jaren saves Rynor from a Coloss attack and is nearly eaten himself, only being saved at the last minute by Kael. Kael orders his squad to focus on recovering Alren.

They do not make it far before Bertholdt Hoover's Cataclysm Coloss appears and attacks Rynor. Jaren manages to rescue Rynor from his Coloss before he is eaten, but the Cataclysm Coloss throws Rynor's Coloss at the group and they are knocked off Arin by the impact. Jaren and Rynor are left hanging off the Coloss with both of their equipment too damaged to be used any further.

Jaren refuses to let Rynor go and admits that they no longer have any chance of winning and encourages Rynor to keep fighting while they are still alive. Before the group can be devoured, they are saved from the Colossi by the arrival of Falo, who has learned to fly using his Razor Coloss.

Atop Falo's Coloss, Kael decides that the group will have to split up to simultaneously detonate the explosives on Arin's nape and save Alren. Mira tries to protest, but Jaren and the others regretfully insist that killing Arin is their only option left. As Falo returns to Arin's Coloss, Jaren is discouraged to hear gunfire from Fort Salta, suggesting that the Vestari and Marleyans have begun fighting each other again. Reaching Arin once more, Jaren and Rynor choose to attack Arin's nape themselves while their comrades pursue Alren.

Rynor uses his Coloss to hold off the War Hammer Colossi which have been generated while Jaren tries to rush to Arin's nape, but more Colossi begin appearing to cut Jaren off. Pixa makes a timely reappearance and Jaren uses her distraction to get closer, but he once again finds himself blocked by the dozens of Colossi which continue spawning. Seeing that Pixa has been injured, Jaren uses his maneuvering gear to try to retreat with her to Rynor, only to find Rynor at the mercy of the War Hammer Colossi. They are ambushed by two other Colossi, but are saved by the intervention of Marcel and Porko Galen's Jaw Colossi.

As Rynor and their newfound allies hold off the Colossi, Jaren is finally able to reach the explosives attached to Arin's nape. Reluctantly, Jaren sets off the explosives and severs Arin's head from his Coloss's body.

To Jaren's horror, a centipede emerges from Arin's nape and attempts to reattach to him, but Rynor flies past him and manages to stop it. Jaren's allies arrive to evacuate with him so Alren can transform. Jaren is reluctant to leave Rynor, but is convinced by Pixa to do so.

The group returns to Fort Salta. They are relieved to see that Rynor survived the explosion, but Jaren and his companions are left unsurprised when Arin and the centipede also emerge alive. The group reluctantly decides that they will need to prioritize killing Arin over the centipede, but before they can depart the centipede begins emitting smoke into the fort. Realizing that the smoke is going to transform the Vestari in the fort into Colossi, Jaren and Conny are forced to stay behind in the fort while Falo, Pixa and the Ackermanns depart to finish Arin.

As they watch their companions depart, Jaren muses that he and Conny are going to have to entrust their allies to finish the job for them. As they are about to transform, Conny jokes that it is Jaren's fault that they were burdened with the job of saving the world since he was the one who convinced them to join the Recon Legion.

The Vestari in Fort Salta all transform and immediately go to protect the centipede as it attempts to return to Arin.

Following Arin's death, the Coloss Manifestation is eliminated from the world and all of the Vestari return to their human forms.

Recovering his memories of his final conversation with Arin, Jaren mourns for his friend. As the Vestari regroup, the surviving Marleyan soldiers from Salta come out to confront them. The Marleyans threaten to kill them if they cannot prove that they are no longer Colossi, and only Alren is able to talk them down.

In the three years following Arin's death, the survivors of the "Battle of Heaven and Earth" at Fort Salta are made peace ambassadors between the remnants of the outside world and Paradis. As the ambassadors sail to Paradis to begin peace talks in the year 857, Jaren reprimands Rynor for lusting after Elira, who is now married. Pixa observes that Jaren is acting particularly vain himself, but Jaren claims he only wants to look good for the history books. Rynor makes a joke at his expense, but their argument is cut off by Anya, who points out that the odds of them successfully negotiating with Paradis are low. Despite their misgivings, Alren is confident that the sight of the Warriors and the Recon Legion, former enemies, working together will be enough to get the Vestari of Paradis to listen.

Jaren is an exceptionally level-headed individual, able to see the big picture and make tactically wise decisions when it counts. It was these traits that earned Jaren his rank as 6th best among the 104th Cadet Corps.

Jaren is highly adept at using omni-directional mobility gear , being able to maneuver well even on open terrain, which is considered extremely difficult. He has also shown his capability in being able to attack and slay Colossi efficiently even without his proper equipment and can successfully maneuver around them in order to directly attack their nape or simply avoid them. He is one of the best soldiers in the 104th training corps with the Maneuvering Gear.

Jaren is highly skilled in the usage of Thunder Spears , enough to almost kill Rynor Feld during battle of Shiganshina District , and shoot through Burden Coloss's left eye, effectively blowing up the helmet and leaving its head vulnerable to attacks.