This article is about one of the Ennead Colossi . For other uses of this name, see Mimic Coloss (Disambiguation) .

The Mimic Coloss ( 女型の巨人 Megata no Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi and possessed the ability to easily mimic the attributes of the other Colossi. It could also selectively harden parts of its skin and attract Pure Colossi with its screams, possibly due to its aforementioned mimicry ability.

According to Anya, it was particularly easy for the Mimic Coloss to exhibit abilities similar to those of the other Colossi if it consumed parts of them. As a result, Dominion of Marn heavily experimented on her.

Similar to the Origin Core and Zair Kael 's Primal Coloss , the Mimic Coloss was able to exercise a degree of influence over Pure Colossi through a scream-based ability; in the Female's case, it was able to attract Pure Colossi to itself. It has been theorized that this ability was used by Anya Levar to gather all the Colossi to the Barrier Rings during the fall of Outer Ring .

The downside of the attraction ability was that once the Colossi following the Female arrived at its location, they would attack the Mimic Coloss and eat its body. Under normal circumstances, this could lead to disaster for the user of the Female; but on some occasions, this phenomenon could be used to their advantage. With omni-directional mobility gear , the user could escape from the Mimic Coloss as other Colossi consumed its body; and the steam emitted from the continuously inflicted wounds could serve as a cover for the user if they did not desire to be seen.

The Mimic Coloss was known for its high endurance and mobility, the greatest instance of this being when Anya Levar ran for an extended period of time during the 57th Scouting Mission outside the Barrier Rings with the goal of finding and capturing Arin Kael .

The Mimic Coloss possessed the ability to harden its skin, able to shatter blades of ultrahard steel upon contact. Besides its defensive properties, this hardening made the Mimic Coloss's melee attacks significantly stronger, with a single well-placed blow being capable of dismembering or even decapitating other Colossi. Anya Levar also used this ability while coming out of her Coloss's nape to create a crystal cocoon around herself. This self-encapsulation could in some cases spread the hardened flesh onto nearby individuals, fusing them with the Mimic Coloss's body.

The Mimic Coloss, like all the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . In the 1,700 years following her death, the Mimic Coloss was held in the possession of one or several of the warring Eldian houses subservient to the Origin Core . After these seventeen centuries when Karl Fritz , the 145th king of the Fritz family , abandoned the conflicts of Eldia and relocated to Isle of Vestara , the Mimic Coloss was taken by the nation of Dominion of Marn during the Great Coloss War .

Around the year 843 , Anya Levar was chosen to inherit the power of the Mimic Coloss. She would later make use of her Mimic Coloss in a war between Dominion of Marn and an enemy nation.

In the year 845, the nation of Dominion of Marn sent out Anya, Rynor Feld , Bertholdt Hoover , and Marcel Galliard across the sea to Isle of Vestara as the start of the Isle of Vestara Operation . Her Mimic Coloss was responsible for the massive amounts of Colossi that invaded Outer Ring during its fall .

Five years later, Anya 's Mimic Coloss makes its first appearance in the Barrier Rings during the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission . With suspicions that Arin Kael has inherited the Origin Core by some means, the Warriors change their goal from wiping out the Vestari in the Barrier Rings to capturing Arin Kael. Having heard of Arin's supposed position in the expedition from a fellow Warrior, Anya attacks the right flank of the formation first in search of Arin, taking precautions not to kill any soldier in the Recon Legion before seeing their face. With her Mimic Coloss's ability, she gathers many Pure Colossi to her trail which brings devastation on the right flank.

After venturing into the formation for some distance, Anya encounters Alren Vos and corners him. For reasons she is uncertain of, she spares Alren's life and continues in her search for Arin. Alren pursues her with Rynor and Jaren and informs them of his theory on Arin's position in the formation. As they engage the Female, Rynor pretends to get caught by her and uses the opportunity to carve directions to Arin's true location into the Female's hand. The Mimic Coloss abandons her fight with the soldiers and changes her plan of attack.

When word reaches Commander Orwin Hale of the sudden attack on the right flank, he changes the direction of the expedition into a nearby Forest of Giant Trees where he and the veterans of the Recon Legion set a trap for the Female with the special target restraining weapon . The Mimic Coloss enters the forest and soon comes across Arin in the Special Operations Squad led by Captain Kael . It pursues Squad Kael for some time, but is eventually caught in Erwin's trap.

With her Coloss form totally restrained, Anya uses her hardening ability to protect her body from further harm. After overhearing plans to extract her from her nape, she makes use of the Mimic Coloss's true ability and screams out for any Colossi in the area to come to her. A horde of Colossi from all directions soon answers her call and began to consume her Coloss body, leaving the Recon Legion with no choice but to drive off the Colossi. In the chaos, Anya escapes with the help of omni-directional mobility gear and pursues Arin in her human form. After killing Gunther Schultz with her blades, she transforms into the Mimic Coloss a second time and battles with Squad Kael. The Mimic Coloss is briefly immobilized, but through prioritizing its healing it is able to kill Eld Gin , Oruo Bozad , and Petra Rall .

With no one left at his side, Arin transforms into the Vanguard Coloss and battles with the Mimic Coloss. The two struggle for some time, but Arin is stunned in place upon recognizing a fighting stance used by Anya. In the moment, Anya incapacitates the Vanguard Coloss and captures Arin. As she flees the forest, Mira Acken and Captain Kael pursue her and successfully immobilize the Mimic Coloss, rescuing Arin. Defeated, Anya would no longer pursue Arin during the expedition.

Several days later, Anya is cornered by the Recon Legion in Stohess District thanks to Alren's suspicions of her identity as the Mimic Coloss. With no hope for escape, she transforms into the Female one last time and attempts to escape, but Arin's Vanguard Coloss pursues her. After a short skirmish, the Mimic Coloss uses this opportunity for one last-ditch attempt at capturing Arin, incapacitating him Arin and fleeing the scene shortly after. Suddenly, Arin's Coloss turns dark and fiery. With only one arm and leg, it comes charging at the Mimic Coloss and grips its hand on its face causing its eyes to burst out.

The Mimic Coloss lets out a long roar and escapes from the Coloss's grip by kicking it away. It attempts to scale Inner Ring , but Mira appears up to her position where she cuts the fingers of the Mimic Coloss, sending it falling to the ground. As the Vanguard Coloss and the Recon Legion close in to extract Anya from the Female's nape, Anya resorts to using her Coloss's hardening ability to encase herself in a crystal-like substance to prevent interrogation. Anya's crystal is later brought underground, and the Mimic Coloss rendered temporarily unusable.

When the Isle of Vestara Operation is postponed, the Warriors make no attempt to rescue Anya from her captors. Four years later, there is still no sign of the Mimic Coloss's return. Zair speculates it was either stolen or Anya is still alive since there have been no children discovered on the mainland with the Mimic Coloss's power.

Somewhere underground in Paradis, Anya is shown to be still incapacitated within her crystal.

After gaining full control of the Origin Core 's abilities, Arin undoes all Coloss hardening, inadvertently releasing Anya from her crystal.

After Anya regains herself, the Jaegerists begin attacking the harbor which forces Anya and Rynor to transform into their Colossi and engage the Jaegerists.

Despite the Jaegerists carrying Thunder Spears , Anya and Rynor successfully managed to repel their attacks. This initial success, however, was rapidly overturned after the Azumabito engineers ran onto the battlefield, forcing the Mimic Coloss to use its body as a shield in order to protect them. As a result, both Colossi were rendered inactive, the Thunder Spears blowing off the Mimic Coloss's arms and head. Both Anya and Rynor had to be saved by Pixa 's Burden Coloss and Falo Gryss 's Razor Coloss .

After a brief departure from the Alliance, Anya along with Gara and Falo rejoins them in the Battle of Heaven and Earth , after being caught up on the situation with the Nine Coloss of past generations and identifying the Coloss which captured Alren near Arin's Coloss's tailbone and deploy to try to rescue him. As they fight the Coloss attempts to flee and Anya uses her Mimic Coloss to throw Mira after it. Mira is stopped from reaching the Coloss by an Aegis Coloss which Anya defeats, but the three comrades are quickly surrounded before they can stop Alren's captor from fleeing to Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss. Anya is quickly overwhelmed by the sheer number of Colossi, but she is saved at the last moment by the intervention of Bertholdt's Coloss. Mira releases Alren from the okapi-shaped Coloss and Anya catches him as he falls to the ground. Jaren manages to detonate Arin's nape thanks to the help of their new allies and Anya joins her friends in evacuating atop Falo's Coloss so that Alren can transform.

Due to smoke emanating from the source of all living matter that causes Leonhart and the rest of the Vestari in the fort to transform into Colossi, to Anya's horror. The Colossi all begin rallying to defend the source of all living matter as it attempts to return to Arin, Anya transforms once more and joins Pixa and Rynor in trying to hold the creature and its Colossi back with their Coloss forms.

After Arin's death, the Mimic Coloss power ceased to exist along with the Coloss Manifestation .