Mira Acken ( ミカサ・アッカーマン Mira Akkāman ) is one of the two deuteragonists of the series. She is the last descendant of the Shogun clan that stayed on Isle of Vestara , thereby related to the Azumabito family , and holds significant political power in Hizuru .

After her mother and father were murdered by bandits , Mira was rescued by Arin. She lived with him and his parents for approximately one year before the Fall of Outer Ring .

Though she desires only to live a peaceful life with Arin, Mira chose to follow him into the military —where she is considered the best soldier among the 104th Cadet Corps . She later joined the Recon Legion to continue following and protecting Arin.

Mira is a fairly tall, physically fit, and well-toned woman with muscles lined throughout her arms, legs, and abdomen. By the year 854 , her hair is shorter and cut up to the back of her neck, though she simultaneously wears noticeably longer bangs. She is of partial Asian heritage , with pale skin, gray eyes, and shaggy black hair that was long until she cut it to chin-length at Arin 's suggestion. . By the year 857, Mira's hair grew noticeably long and is tied in a ponytail.

Her eye color is not consistent and often varies, depending on the light and surroundings, between shades of gray and occasionally blue. Her body has been depicted as extremely well-toned, with little, if any, in the way of body fat and muscles lined throughout her arms, legs, and abs. Mira also has a small scar below her right eye, which she received after Arin unknowingly attempted to kill her in his Coloss form.

As a soldier, Mira often wears a uniform consisting of a short, light-brown jacket with the badge of the Recon Legion on both shoulders, on the front left pocket, and on the center of the back, a white shirt, a brown sash around the waist covering the hips, white pants, and brown knee-high leather boots. She also wears a green cape with the symbol of the Recon Legion after entering the faction. A unique part of her attire is a dark red scarf, which was given to her by Arin after saving her from human traffickers. Because of that, it is very precious to her, and she almost always has it with her.

While in Dominion of Marn , Mira wears a black Recon Legion uniform, which features a breastplate with the regiment's symbol; many belts to accommodate all the different gear; support rods around her chest for the gas canister; and tall black boots. She also carries guns, thunder spears, an additional gas tank, and canisters running vertically down her legs.

Prior to her parents' death, Mira was a cheerful yet unusually perceptive child. From an early age, she was aware of the harshness of nature, witnessing the manner in which predators would hunt and kill weaker prey. However, her innocence allowed her to push this reality to the back of her mind and she continued to live happily with her parents. This illusory peace was shattered when a band of criminals brutally murdered her parents before her eyes in a failed kidnapping attempt of both Mira and her mother. She later managed to overcome the attackers with her rescuer, Arin Kael . Even as a child, Mira managed to abandon all hesitation and kill one of her assailants. Following this traumatic event, she gained a generally cynical outlook on life and accepted the world as a cruel place where only those who are strong are able to survive.

After the murder of her parents, Mira has become noticeably emotionally withdrawn and serious, but she still loves and cares deeply for her friends, especially Arin and Alren Vos , seeing them as the last remnants of a family she cannot afford to lose. Her personality as a teenager is very much influenced and molded by Arin, who told her she stood no chance of survival if she did not fight for it. His words continue to stay with her, and her mind automatically recalls them to spur her on when she is close to death. Her determination to protect Arin as much as possible may also have contributed greatly to her phenomenal skills as a soldier. Though she is among the best of the best, she remains humble and refrains from putting on airs or displaying arrogance.

Mira has a strong sense of right and wrong, but she is also very protective of Arin and does all she can to advise him to follow what she deems to be the right track. Despite that, she knows well that she cannot always sway Arin in his decisions, and she makes a point to follow Arin to almost everywhere he goes and stick by whatever final decisions he makes, just so that she can be around to help him out when he is in trouble. The sole reason she enlisted in the military and joined the Recon Legion after her graduation was to keep an eye on Arin, despite the fact that she truly wished to live out the rest of her days in relative peace within the Barrier Rings alongside him. She also takes Arin's opinion seriously, so much so that when he once said that her hair was too long, she immediately had it cut, even though Jaren had just commented that it looked beautiful.

Despite all her blind loyalty, Mira is quite stoic and level-headed. Her will is remarkably strong, and she is rarely seen to lose her cool or be at a loss of what to do, no matter how bleak a situation seems to be. Even when she believed Arin to be dead, outwardly she managed to remain so calm that only Alren could tell that she was battling with the pain of losing Arin. However, she is not completely immune to the effects of her emotions. Her strong feelings for Arin, particularly when he is in harm's way, does at times cloud her judgment - sometimes to the endangerment of herself and others. A notable example is when she briefly gave in to her grief over Arin's apparent demise and lost the will to live - forgetting her responsibility for the lives of the soldiers she had taken upon herself to lead in the process. However, she was reawakened by her memories of Arin, after which she made a conscious decision to never give up again, as if she were to die, her memories of Arin would die with her. When she found him alive and well, she completely lost her composure and wept tears of joy.

Mira's bond with Arin is undoubtedly her most important relationship and one that defines Mira. For Arin's sake, Mira has expressed a variety of emotions such as compassion, concern, anger, embarrassment, sadness, and tenderness. She has openly wept tears of relief at his safety, and developed vengeful grudges towards those who harm him. She relentlessly attacked the Mimic Coloss in a murderous fury as it attempted to abduct Arin. Mira blushed when it was insinuated she and Arin were lovers and has suffered crippling distress at the thought of losing Arin forever. Mira also wears the red scarf Arin gave her when they first met, holding on to it as a source of strength and comfort when she is upset.

Mira was born to a father who is an Ackermann and an Asian mother . Before her parents' death, she lived peacefully with them in the farmlands of Outer Ring . Mira underwent a painful scarring ritual from her mother, who cut into her skin the mark of their family and was taught a unique style of embroidery. Being the last of their race made them high value targets to human traffickers , who killed Mira's parents and attempted to kidnap her for the purpose of selling her as a slave to the people in the Capital when she was only nine years old.

She was rescued by Arin , who tricked and killed two of the slavers. He was then overwhelmed by the third trafficker and was on the verge of being strangled. Desperately, Arin urged Mira to fight to win. Although she was initially frightened, she came to realize that, "This world is a callous and merciless place," dispatching the bandit who was trying to kill Arin. When Arin's father arrived with members of the Internal Directorate Regiment , she was given the scarf by Arin and accepted into his family . This event awakened the fighting instincts and perfect self-control that would later turn her into a formidable soldier. She lived with Arin's family in Outer Ring's Shiganshina District until it was destroyed by the Cataclysm Coloss .

Mira appears for the first time in year 845 somewhere inside Outer Ring . She is seen waking Arin up, telling him that they need to return to home. She is surprised to see tears in his eyes and asks why he was crying. On their way home, they meet Hannes . Mira watches as Arin complains about the soldiers slacking off while on duty. Later, both Arin and Mira watch the return of the Recon Legion forces, witnessing yet another failure of their expedition. After returning home, Mira tells on Arin, revealing to his parents his desire to join the Recon Legion. Annoyed, Arin leaves, with Mira following him. They save Alren Vos , who is being beaten by local bullies and together discuss their desire to go outside the Barrier Rings.

At that moment, the three kids witness the sudden appearance of a Cataclysm Coloss that breaches the Wall's gate. Mira and Arin run back to their home to find it crushed and Carla trapped under the debris. In spite of their attempts, Mira and Arin are unable to free her, Hannes rescuing them as a Coloss devours Arin's mother. Mira and Arin are placed on a ship just as the Aegis Coloss breaks through the inner gate, letting the Colossi inside Outer Ring. Arin's vows to kill all the Colossi as they are transported to safety. Once inside the safety of Middle Ring, Arin confronts a soldier from the Citadel Guard Regiment who manifests his annoyance for having to share their food with outsiders. The short beating the soldiers give Arin causes him to claim that he will retake Outer Ring with his own hands. He insults Alren for his doubt and Mira punches him to bring him back to his senses. She then declares that she will do everything to keep him alive, forcing him to eat the rations he had previously discarded out of anger.

After the events of the Outer Ring's destruction, the government 's desperate attempt to reclaim the lands using the refugees leads to nothing but more casualties. This prompts Mira, Arin and Alren enroll in the military and become members of the 104th Cadet Corps .

During their training, Mira helps Arin as much as she can as he initially fails to grasp the basics of the omni-directional mobility gear . They manage to pass the qualifying tests, Mira quickly proving her skills and is praised as one of the best cadets in military history. At one point, Mira asks Anya Levar , a fellow cadet with exceptional skill, to teach her a self-defense technique that she was teaching Arin, which eventually calls for a bet with the 104th Cadet Corps to see who is the stronger fighter. At the 104th Cadet Corps' graduation, she is ranked first in the class.

In the year 848, Mira takes part in a group navigation training exercise under Thomas Wagner 's command. Partway through the exercise, the group's ODM gear is stolen by a band of thieves. The group decides to speed up their exercise to warn Marco Bodt 's group. The next day, Mira's group rendezvous with Marco's group, and help them in disarming the remaining bandits they had been engaging.

In the year 849, Arin and Mira confusedly watch a brewing fight between Sera and Jaren . Afterward, she and Arin work to unload crates from a wagon. Carrying a number of them with ease, Mira notices that Arin is struggling and offers to help him with his, but he angrily refuses. During the cooking competition, Mira is shown doing her routine body work-out.

Before having the chance to fully apply in the Recon Legion so she can keep Arin safe, the Cataclysm Coloss breaches Middle Ring the same way it did with Outer Ring. Much to her dismay, Mira is assigned to the rear guard to help fend off the Colossi while the civilians escape into the safety of Inner Ring. Before fulfilling her duty, she makes Arin promise her not to do anything reckless.

Later on, as an abnormal Coloss approaches the escaping civilians who are blocked at the gate. Mira kills it, saving everyone. She then witnesses why the civilians are taking too long to escape; an overloaded cargo cart is blocking the way. Mira asks the businessman to move the cart so that the people could escape, but when he refuses, she resorts to threatening him after knocking his guards unconscious, which scares the man enough to relent and move his goods. Seeing a mother and daughter show their gratitude for saving them, Mira flashes back to the time she lost her own parents and realizes that Arin is the only family she has left. Thus, with the evacuation of Trost District citizens complete, she heads to the front guard in order to aid her comrades. However, the sole cadet survivors are low on gas, making them unable to scale the Wall while the supply team inside the headquarters has barricaded themselves in against the onslaught of multiple Colossi. After hearing of Arin's supposed death from Alren, Mira regroups the survivors and insults them, saying she will break through the Colossi assaulting the headquarters.

Because of her grief over Arin's death, she fights irrationally and does not notice that she is running out of gas. As two Colossi close in on her, she contemplates giving up and begins to remember her time with Arin, recalling Arin's cries of fighting back against her kidnappers , which gives her motivation to fight once more. When Mira stands up to kill the Coloss in front of her, another Coloss comes running from behind and saves her. This Coloss, which ignores Mira, gives Alren enough time to rescue Mira and they both continue heading to the supply HQ. As they watch this rogue Coloss continue killing other Colossi, they hatch a plan to lure it to the HQ and relieve the siege there. With its help, the cadets manage to successfully refill their gas tanks and have clear access to the Wall.

However, as they watch, the rogue Coloss disposes of the last Colossi surrounding them, Arin appears out the nape of its neck. Overcome with relief that Arin is alive, Mira quickly rescues and embraces him, everyone leaves for the Wall. However, Jaren, along with Anya, Rynor , and Bertholdt are ordered to hand Arin over to superior officers under the command of Kitz Woermann and to treat the incident as something confidential. Their refusal to do so causes Mira and her friends to be accused of treason and find themselves surrounded by Captain Woermann's men, who are prompt to execute them. Mira attempts to defend Arin by drawing her blades and threatening to kill anyone who would try to harm Arin, but witnessing Arin's Coloss form fighting in Trost District, Woermann does not hesitate and orders a cannon to fire at them in spite of the latter's claim that he is a human. Arin uses his power to block the cannonball and tries to think of a plan of escape. He proposes that they either try to flee over the Barrier Rings and escape into the Coloss territory or have Alren attempt to persuade the soldiers to spare them, leaving him to choose. Alren tries his best to convince the soldiers that Arin's Coloss abilities could help to save humanity but realizes the commander is far too scared to think rationally. Before the order can be given to fire upon them once more, they are saved when Commander Dot Pyxis , head administrator of the southern region, intervenes. They are sent on a mission to plug the breach in the Wall with a rock that only Arin in Coloss form can lift.

As the mission commences and Arin goes into Coloss form, he loses control, attacking Mira, and eventually knocking himself out. The elite team , led by Ian Dietrich , Rico Brzenska , and Mitabi Jarnach , designated to defend Arin as he carries the rock quarrel among themselves about what to do next. Mira is on the verge of attacking them until Ian orders everyone to continue protecting Arin until he recovers. Thanks to Alren's intervention, Arin eventually regains his senses and successfully places the rock down, albeit with many casualties. At that moment, they are saved by Kael as he kills the Colossi approaching them.

After the battle of Trost District is over, Arin is brought before a military tribunal to decide his future. Despite Mira's best efforts to defend him, she is forced to testify against Arin as his reckless actions have frightened many people in the courtroom. She is also forced to watch helplessly as Arin is assaulted and humiliated by Kael.

Some time later, Mira and everyone else have their omni-directional mobility gear inspected in order to find out the culprit who killed the two captured Colossi. Later on, Commander Orwin Hale comes to recruit new members for the Recon Legion which is scheduling an expedition within a few months. Many leave except for Mira, Rynor, Alren, Sera, Christa , Conny , Jaren, Bertholdt, and a few others.

Shortly after leaving for Outer Ring, the Mimic Coloss appears and defeats numerous Recon Legion members. The formation eventually reaches the Forest of Giant Trees , with Mira being stationed at its outskirts, making sure that no Colossi enter the forest. Eventually, she attempts to approach Arin as she hears his roar in his Coloss Form. Upon reaching Arin's location, she witnesses the Mimic Coloss devouring Arin's human body. After overcoming the initial shock, Mira charges at the Mimic Coloss, attacking it in order to rescue Arin.

As Mira is engaging the Mimic Coloss she is joined by Kael and the two join forces to retrieve Arin. Kael tells Mira to distract the Coloss but avoid trying to kill her while he tries to incapacitate her. However, as soon as Kael's attacks give her an opening, Mira disobeys his orders and attempts to finish off the Coloss. As a result, she is nearly killed by the Coloss and Kael is forced to rescue her, injuring his leg in the process. Using the momentum gained from the last attack, he cuts through the Mimic Coloss's facial muscles, causing her to open her mouth and reveal Arin inside. He grabs Arin and flees with him and Mira, whom he scolds for having risked the life of her "special friend" for the sake of vengeance.

They manage to take Arin back and join the rest of the formation. While heading to the Barrier Rings, the formation is attacked by multiple Colossi brought by a couple of rookie soldiers who disobeyed a direct order from Commander Erwin, and Mira must save the rookies who are caught by the Colossi.

Afterwards, Mira spends the trip back to the Barrier Rings riding in the cart which is transporting Arin's body. As Arin regains consciousness upon their arrival, the civilians begin jeering the Scouts for failing another expedition and Mira must convince him not to retaliate.

Following the Recon Legion's failure, Alren manages to convince Anya to help him and Mira sneak Arin out of Stohess District until they can gather evidence to prove to the King that the Barrier Rings need to be protected better. However, when Anya makes excuses not to go underground with them, Mira gets fed up and draws her blade.

Even after Anya transforms into the Mimic Coloss, Arin has trouble convincing himself to fight her, so Mira runs out to try holding her off. Eventually, Arin manages to turn into a Coloss and attacks Anya. When he begins to overwhelm her, she attempts to climb over Inner Ring to escape. Mira uses her omni-directional mobility gear to hurl herself high enough up the Wall to catch up with the Mimic Coloss and cuts off all her fingers. She then proceeds to push Anya off so she falls to the ground.

Later that day, Mira watches over Arin in a room until he wakes up from his battle with Anya. She expresses joy at his survival and remains at his bedside as Alren and Jaren head down to a meeting.

Following the supposed breach of Middle Ring, Mira, Arin, and other members of the Recon Legion come to rescue Rynor, Bertholdt, Conny, Elira, and Imera from Colossi at Utgard Castle . She is among the others who learn that Christa's real name is Elira. After the Scouts regroup on top of Middle Ring, Mira is outraged when she overhears Rynor confessing that he and Bertholdt were the Colossi responsible for the attack on Outer Ring and want Arin to join them. She takes them by surprise, striking them with her swords, and tells Arin to run. However, her heart is not completely in her attack and she fails to kill them. Their injuries allow them to transform into the Armored and Colossal Colossi.

Arin transforms into his own Coloss to fight Rynor's Aegis Coloss and Mira, regretting her earlier hesitation, attempts to help him, but her blades have no effect against his armor. Hanna theorizes that he must have gaps in his protection though since he moves too fast to be uniformly armored. While Arin grapples with Rynor, Mira takes advantage of Hanna's suggestion and cuts through the exposed backs of Rynor's knees, further weakening his ability to fight. However, Rynor unexpectedly roars, signaling Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss to fall down on top of him and Arin.

The resulting blast is strong enough to throw back any Scouts nearby. Mira regains consciousness five hours later to discover that Arin has been kidnapped and the Scouts are in no shape to mount a rescue. She had been able to help Kael save Arin from the Mimic Coloss before because they could pursue her right away, but that is not possible this time.

Hannes offers her and Alren rations to chew on while reminding them that Arin has always been running away and getting into trouble like this and that Mira and Alren have always come to bail him out. He reminds them that Arin always fights, even if he is going to lose, so he should be able to hold out until the two of them can rescue him again. Reassured, Mira eats her rations to regain her strength.

She joins the joint military operation to rescue Arin and heads to the forest of giant trees where they hope to find Rynor, Bertholdt, and their captives. Once they arrive she joins Hannes and a number of her fellow Scouts in searching the inside of the forest where they encounter Imera in her Coloss form . Imera kidnaps Elira and flees while Mira and the others chase after her. At the forest's edge, Rynor transforms into the Aegis Coloss. Imera jumps on his back and Bertholdt, carrying an unconscious Arin, rides on his shoulder.

The soldiers follow the group on horseback and try to free Arin from Bertholdt, but Imera interferes with their attempts. Realizing that Imera stands in the way of saving Arin, Mira prepares to attack her, but Elira jumps in the way, saying that Imera does not have a choice but to help Rynor and Bertholdt. Mira is unmoved, having decided six years ago who was important to her, and she is out of time and room in her heart to care for more.

Fearing that Imera will be killed, Elira convinces her to back down, leaving the rest of the 104th free to try talking Bertholdt into letting Arin go, though Mira is considerably less forgiving than the others. Though Bertholdt expresses regret over their betrayal, he refuses to hand over Arin and the Scouts are forced to jump off the Aegis Coloss when Erwin leads a horde of Colossi into Rynor. After the Aegis Coloss is immobilized by the sheer number of them, Erwin calls for the soldiers to charge in and recover Arin.

Mira rides her horse at a gallop, weaving around the intimidating number of Colossi between her and Arin, and launches herself at Bertholdt, but she misses and sees Arin watching her in panic. Her trajectory carries her straight into another Coloss that grabs her hard enough to crush her ribs. Jaren, who had been riding just behind her, attacks the Coloss, burying his blade in its eye and allowing Mira to get free.

With Alren's help, Erwin is able to cut Arin free from Bertholdt and Mira catches him in the air. The two of them flee on horseback but are knocked to the ground when Rynor begins throwing Colossi at the retreating soldiers. As they look up, they see the smiling Coloss approaching them is the one that ate Arin's mother . Mira is unable to defend Arin due to her injury, but Hannes buys them time in an attempt to avenge Carla Jaeger. Arin shouts for Mira to free his arms so he can help fight, but when he tries biting himself to transform nothing happens.

As Hannes is killed and the battle turns against the soldiers around them, Arin falls into despair, feeling that he has never had the power to do anything. Mira asks him to listen to her. He showed her how to live with purpose and he wrapped his scarf around her, and for that she is grateful. She smiles, with tears in her eyes, and Arin vows to wrap that scarf around her as many times as she wants.

He punches the smiling Coloss, triggering something that causes all the other mindless Colossi to attack it. In the resulting confusion, he carries Mira away on his back and also sends the Colossi after Rynor and Bertholdt. They escape with the rest of the surviving soldiers and return to Trost District.

Some time later, Mira is selected to be a member of the new Squad Kael assigned to safeguard Arin and Elira in an isolated forest cabin. Much to her friends' surprise, she rapidly recovers from her broken ribs, able to chop and lift firewood as well as performing sit-ups. Sera is afterward caught trying to steal a loaf of bread, and her friends confront her.

Later that day, Kael Squad assist Hanna in running a series of tests on Arin's Coloss powers. The tests go poorly and Arin reaching the point of exhaustion, only partially forming while being unresponsive. Mira jumps off her horse and runs up to him before Hanna tries pulling Arin's body out of his Coloss. Mira notices Arin's disfigured face and hurriedly cuts him free despite Hanna's eagerness to make a sketch.

The next night, Nifa brings a message from Commander Erwin, prompting Kael to tell everybody to clear the cabin immediately. Outside, he reveals the royal government has put a freeze on Recon Legion activity outside the Wall and are demanding they hand over Arin and Elira. Kael Squad and three of Hanna's subordinates make for Trost. There, a carriage comes crashing through and seemingly kidnaps Arin and Elira, though the kidnapped victims are actually Jaren and Alren in disguise.

On the roof above the kidnappers' hideout, Mira talks to Kael and tells him that Alren's disguise is on the verge of being uncovered. Kael notes that the kidnappers are seemingly amateurs and leaves the situation in her hands.

As the lead kidnapper and his henchmen enter the warehouse where Jaren and Alren are being held, they notice the guard is missing. Mira and the other squad members, including Jaren and Alren, who she had already freed, attack the remaining kidnappers. Mira personally restrains their leader and informs the rest of the squad that after tying them up they are to meet with Kael.

Shortly after, Mira and the others hear the sound of gunshots and go to investigate. They spot the wagon carrying an unconscious Arin and Elira with Kael in pursuit. To their shock, there is another soldier tailing Kael, who aims a gun at his captain. Kael kills the soldier and orders his squad to chase the wagon and kill their opponents, given the chance. Mira knocks over the soldier driving the wagon, allowing Alren to take control of it. However, the Internal Directorate still manages to escape with Arin and Elira. Mira tries to follow them, but Kael stops her.

Returning to the warehouse, Mira comforts Alren as he has a mental breakdown of killing another human. Once he has calmed down, they enter the warehouse, where Kael consoles Alren as well, albeit in such a way that Mira becomes angry with him.

When Dimo Reeves tricks two Internal Directorate of the First Interior Squad to come with him to a remote cabin, Mira and other members of Kael Squad take them hostage at gunpoint. Mira and the rest of the squad listen uncomfortably to the screams as Kael and Hanna conduct their interrogation. When the two are through, Mira and the others are informed that Arin and Elira are likely being held near Rod Reiss . Hanna also informs them of her theory that Arin will soon be eaten. Mira tries to leave immediately to find Arin, and Kael is forced to talk her down.

After the Recon Legion is accused of trying to monopolize Arin's Coloss powers, the government begins arresting all members of the organization. Mira and the rest of Squad Kael avoid being captured, and camp out in the woods outside of Stohess. Sera informs them of approaching MPs, and Mira and Kael ambush them while Alren distracts them as bait. Mira and Alren take their uniforms and put them on with the intention of infiltrating the Internal Directorate to find out where Arin and Elira have been taken, but the two soldiers, Marlo and Hitch do not take their capture quietly, and eventually gain the squad's trust, leading them to a nearby MP checkpoint.

After crippling most of the personnel, Kael and his squad escape with a hostage. They interrogate him about Arin and Elira's location until the name " Kenny Ackermann " comes out, surprising Mira and Kael with the man's apparent relation to her. Before they can question their hostage further, they hear people approaching on foot. To the entire squad's delight, it is Hanna, who informs them that the Recon Legion has been exonerated and that they have a lead on Arin and Elira's whereabouts.

On the way, Kael warns his squad that Kenny Ackermann will be their biggest obstacle because fighting him will be like fighting Kael himself. He asks Mira if she thinks Kenny might be related to her since they share the same last name. She thinks about it and tells him that she knows that her father's family was persecuted, but not the reason why. Kael then asks her whether she experienced a moment when she felt a sudden power awaken inside her and she remembers the moment she took up the knife to kill her kidnapper. She reveals that she did, and upon confirming this, Kael tells her that he and Kenny also experienced such moments in their lives.

They arrive at the chapel and find the secret door leading underground. The team makes preparations for facing the Anti-Personnel Control Squad , which is waiting for them below. When they are ready, they send barrels of gunpowder and bags of oil down the stairs. Sera sets fire to them with a flaming arrow and fills the underground chamber with smoke, reducing visibility and the usefulness of firearms. Most of the squad provides additional cover with signal flares while Mira and Kael scout out their enemies using ODM gear. Kael calls for his squad to take out the Interior MPs and the team springs into action, with Mira swiftly killing three enemy soldiers. After a concerted push, they manage to force the Anti-Personnel Control Squad into a retreat.

Mira and the rest of Kael's squad are suddenly stopped by a bright flash deeper in the cavern. She realizes that it means a Coloss has transformed and worries over Arin. The squad arrives in time for Mira to catch Elira, who had been flung back against the Wall from the force of Rod Reiss' transformation into a Coloss. Mira asks if she is okay before taking the keys to Arin's chains from her and throwing them to Kael so he can free him. The ceiling begins caving in, trapping the squad. Arin apologizes for being useless, but Kael and Elira goad him into taking matters into his own hands. He gets up and grabs a bottle labeled "Armor" that had fallen out of Rod's bag and breaks it between his teeth as he transforms into a Coloss.

Arin's Coloss form then crystallizes, stabilizing the cavern around the squad, preventing them from being crushed. Even after Mira helps cut him out of it, his hardened form does not disappear, which Kael states is a huge development, as they can now seal the hole in Outer Ring.

Mira joins the rest of her squad in meeting up with Erwin and pulling back to Orvud District where they make preparations to fight the gargantuan Coloss that used to be Rod Reiss. As they are preparing to here Erwin's plan, Mira suggests to Elira that she punch Kael once she becomes queen.

At dawn, the Coloss arrives and Arin, Mira, and Alren assemble a stack of barrels filled with gunpowder at Hanna's direction. Mira finds Arin moping and prods him back to work. However, to her surprise, he punches his own face to bring himself back to his senses.

When Rod reaches the Wall, Kael instructs the Citadel Guard soldiers to flee while the Recon Legion soldiers douse themselves in water to withstand the heat. Arin changes into his Coloss and uses the stacked barrels as an explosive by shoving them down Rod's open mouth. Mira joins the rest of the scouts in cutting down the pieces of Coloss flesh that rain down to ensure that the main body of Rod Reiss is slain.

After Elira is crowned as the new queen, Mira and Squad Kael accompany her as she goes to find Kael so she can punch him. Arin tries to tell Mira to take back her suggestion to punch Kael, but Mira only doubles down, telling Elira to dare Kael to hit her back now that she is his queen. Elira follows through on the advice, but Kael surprises the whole squad by smiling and thanking them.

Two months later, the members of Squad Kael help out at an orphanage that Elira has started. While they are working, Elira has a small conversation with Arin, but they are interrupted by a stone-faced Mira, who takes the items Arin was carrying, saying he is tired from all his training. Arin complains that she should not treat him like an old man.

While the soldiers eat and celebrate the success of the Coloss guillotine fashioned by Hanna, Mira remains silent throughout most of the conversation until Arin begins to remember the day he ate his father. Recognizing where his mind is going, Mira stops him, saying that he should finish eating before talking. He does not stop trying to remember though, and suddenly he realizes that the man that his father met the day Outer Ring fell was their old commandant, Keith Sadies. They then decide to pay him a visit.

The following day, Arin, Mira, Alren, and others travel to the training camp to talk with Keith. They talk inside a small house and Keith tells them everything he knows: how he met Grisha 20 years ago outside the Barrier Rings, his relationship with him and Arin's mother during those years, and how he was present in the night Grisha injected Arin with the Coloss Catalyst but did not see anything, and at the end, does not know anything about Grisha's secrets.

Sometime later, the soldiers have a great dinner to celebrate finishing the preparations for retaking Outer Ring. Mira is present, eating and watching Sera's rampage and Jaren and Arin's fight. Even when Jaren blames Arin for the dangers that he puts Mira in, she calmly decides not to intervene.

When the fight ends, Mira sits outside with Arin and Alren. After seeing a soldier that reminds the three of Hannes, she wonders if retaking Outer Ring will make things return to how they were. They agree that they can bring back those days, but some things are now forever lost. However, Alren not only thinks this: he considers that being part of the Recon Legion will allow them to see the ocean and the whole world.

At sunset the following day, the Recon Legion is ready to go to Shiganshina District. After hearing the cheers of the citizens, Erwin starts the operation and Mira rides along Squad Kael towards Shiganshina.

Mira stands atop the Wall with Arin and Alren , as a guillotine-like device crushes the head of a Coloss below. She thinks back at a time and place with the two, where they reminisced about the old days before the fall of Outer Ring . She recalls another time during the Struggle for Trost , when Alren first informed her of Arin's apparent death. Mira experienced a vision of an alternate reality shortly after. Back in the present, Mira believes that Arin will be able to reclaim Outer Ring, kill every Coloss, and see the ocean one day. She acknowledges to herself that no one can stop his fate, but resolves to be by his side no matter where he goes.

The scouts are now walking within a mountaintop forest, nearing dawn. Mira leads Arin's horse, despite his complaints, as the others encourage him to rest as much as possible for his upcoming duties. Jaren spots a nearby Coloss and Hanna quickly orders the group to illuminate the area with their fragments of the Reiss Chapel cave. She claims that it is dozing away and the group moves on. A few moments after this, Mira begins to recognize the area they are in and claims that she collected firewood there once before. Arin and Alren also begin to recognize the area and Mira notes that she can hear the river stream.

The group then finds themselves near the Shiganshina District and race in on horses. Erwin orders that all soldier switch to ODM gear and rush the main gate, covered by their hoods to distract any watching enemies. Mira is among the soldiers surrounding the gate as Arin flies up above to transform.

After Arin successfully seals the hole in Outer Ring, Mira retrieves him from his Coloss form, and returns him to the top of the Wall. Giving Arin her cloak, Mira accompanies the rest of her squad as they return to meet up with Erwin and the rest of the Recon Legion. However, before they can return, they see a signal flare fired by Erwin and stop to await further orders. From her position, Mira and her comrades are able to observe as Rynor reveals himself to be hiding inside the Wall, and the Primal Coloss and his army materialize to engage the Recon Legion.

As Arin and Rynor fight in their Coloss forms, Mira and her squad take up positions around them and wait for a chance to attack. Once Arin has maneuvered Rynor into a section of town with tall buildings, Mira and Hanna use their new Thunder Spears to blind him. After her teammates destroy the armor covering Rynor's nape, the entire squad moves in and destroys Rynor's nape with their Thunder Spears. Afterward, Mira attempts to console a horrified Alren, but is interrupted by Rynor's Coloss form, which begins roaring.

After Alren reveals to Hanna that Bertholdt is approaching, Mira and the rest of the Scouts retreat from Rynor's immediate vicinity, in order to escape being caught in the blast of Bertholdt's transformation into the Cataclysm Coloss. When Bertholdt chooses not to transform in order to check on Rynor, Alren attempts to negotiate with him. However, while Alren is attempting to talk with Bertholdt, Mira takes the opportunity to attack him from behind. She is unsuccessful in killing him, and comments as he flees on his drastic change in personality.

While Mira and Alren are returning to their comrades' position, Bertholdt transforms, and they are forced to hide behind a building to shield themselves from the blast. They then regroup with the rest of Squad Kael and inform them that Hanna's squad has apparently been destroyed by the blast.

As Bertholdt begins destroying Shiganshina, Mira observes that he does not seem to know their location. Pointing out that they will not have time to look for any survivors from Hanna's squad, Mira suggests that Alren take the lead of their squad, though Alren then gives Jaren command.

After retreating from Bertholdt, Arin tries to get Bertholdt's attention, but he ignores them. Deciding that they will have to engage Bertholdt directly, Mira takes Conny's Thunder Spear and prepares to engage Bertholdt. While Arin attacks Bertholdt directly, Mira and the rest of the squad spread out to try to find an opening to attack Bertholdt. However, before they can act, Bertholdt kicks Arin into the side of Outer Ring, to Mira's horror.

Jaren assures her that Arin is not dead, and that their main concern at the moment is taking down Bertholdt. Jaren formulates a plan for he, Conny and Sera to draw Bertholdt's attention while Mira strikes his nape with the Thunder Spears. Just as Mira moves in to strike Bertholdt, he uses his steam to prevent her from reaching him. When Mira lands on a roof where the others already are, she is visibly injured. She explains that a piece of the Thunder Spears hit her, but the wound is not deep. She asks Alren if he believes there is any possible way for them to fight back, but he sees none. They are startled by the sound of a house exploding behind them. From it emerges Rynor, his head fully regenerated. While Alren and Arin choose to confront the Cataclysm Coloss, Mira agrees to join the others in an attack against the Aegis Coloss.

As Rynor begins to run to Arin, Mira sends one of her Thunder Spears into his knees, crippling him. She notices the Cataclysm Coloss in the distance beginning to emit much steam, causing her to worry about Arin and Alren for a moment before she returns her focus to the attack on Rynor. While the others proceed with a plan they devised to defeat Rynor, Sera is injured and misses her Thunder Spear attack on the hinge of the Aegis Coloss's jaw.

Mira realizes that since she has the only Thunder Spear left and Rynor's jaw has not been completely unhinged, she cannot proceed with the plan to blow Rynor's body out of his nape by sending a Thunder Spear into his mouth. As she considers the situation, Hanna returns to the battle, sending their own Thunder Spear at Rynor and destroying his other jaw hinge. With the plan now on the verge of success, Mira jumps into Rynor's mouth, ordering him to get out as she sends her final Thunder Spear into his mouth, defeating the Aegis Coloss.

While Hanna interrogates an injured Rynor, Mira begins treating Jaren's injuries. Although Hanna wants to simply execute Rynor, Jaren convinces them to keep him alive long enough to steal his powers with the Coloss injection. Hanna orders Mira to go retrieve the serum from Kael, and to send up a signal flare if there is a change of plans, so that Hanna will know to kill Rynor. When Mira arrives at Kael's position, she is horrified to find a hysterical Arin trying to keep a badly-injured Alren alive. As Kael agrees to use the Coloss Catalyst to save Alren's life, Mira shoots a flare to notify Hanna that Rynor must be killed. However, Kael's mind is swayed by the arrival of another soldier, who reveals that Erwin is also mortally wounded. Horrified by Kael's announcement that he will save Erwin and not Alren, Mira draws her blade and begins to advance upon him.

As Kael punches Arin in the face, Mira pins him to the rooftop and draws her blade to his neck. Noticing how worn out Kael is, she attempts to grab the Coloss Catalyst from his hand, as Kael reminds her that without Erwin's strength, humanity can never defeat the Colossi. When Floch approaches her, she flips her blade in order to strike him with the blunt side of the sword and knock him down, only to be stopped by Hanna. As they both struggle, Mira eventually capitulates, remembering a happier time when she, Arin and Alren were children, as tears roll down her face. After Alren returns to his human form, Mira, along with Arin, pick him up off the ground as she cries tears of joy to see he is alive and well.

Atop the Wall, after Arin informs Alren of what has happened after the battle ended, Hanna orders Mira, Kael and Arin to continue surveying and head for the Jaeger family's house. Upon reaching the basement's door, Arin tries to open the door's lock and is surprised that the key does not fit. Kael kicks down the door and they enter the room.

They find it had been set up to appear as much as possible, a common doctor's office, but after further investigation Mira discovers a keyhole on a locked drawer in the desk, which the key unlocks. The drawer seems empty at first, but Kael notices the false bottom and under it they find three hidden books kept intact with various preservatives. Mira and Arin open the first book, and within it they find an uncannily realistic portrait of Grisha standing beside a fair-haired woman and a child. On the back of it, Grisha had written that what they are holding is called a "photograph" and that humanity has not perished.

Upon returning to the Barrier Rings, Arin and Mira are put in prison cells for several days as punishment for their actions against Kael. During this time, Alren visits them and logs Arin's memories as he retells them of many events in his father Grisha's life that matched up with what was found in the books in his basement. Among these memories is a conversation between him and Arin Kruger, an allied spy to the Restorationists.

During this conversation, Kruger tells Grisha that anyone who has inherited the power of the Colossi will only live for 13 years, as no one with this power can out live its original owner Imera Fritz who founded the nation of Eldia and all its subjects. Upon hearing this revelation, Mira becomes very depressed and denies its validity, knowing that Alren and Arin only have a short number of years left to live if it is true. After Hanna, the current commander, puts too much pressure on Arin in the next prison cell, Kael ordered them free. Mira leaves her cell, having lost weight after not eating in her state of depression.

Mira attends a military meeting on how to proceed with the findings of the basement in Trost. She sits silently as Hanna deliberates their interpretation of the events, but is shocked and confused when Arin shouts all of a sudden during the meeting.

The nine surviving Scouts later attend a ceremony to be honored for their success in the Battle of Shiganshina District. Before the start of the ceremony, Arin gets into an argument with Floch over Alren being saved over Commander Erwin. When she attempts to calm Arin down, Floch commends Mira over her acting like an adult and giving up in saving Alren. This statement surprises and upsets her. She would later go on to be commemorated for her bravery in Shiganshina with a medal.

Roughly a year after the Struggle for Trost, after the Executioner from Hell has eradicated all Colossi within Outer Ring and Shiganshina has been repopulated, the Recon Legion was able to hold an expedition beyond the Barrier Rings for the first time in six years. Mira ventures out on horseback, beyond the Barrier Rings for the first time. After following a deformed Colossi trail, the Scouts reach the edge of Isle of Vestara, and behold the ocean.

The Scouts dismount their horses, discard their boots, and head to the beachfront. Mira is startled by an ocean wave, but goes on to give Alren a warm smile. She listens as Alren begins to joyfully talk with Arin over the immense size of the ocean. However, these happy moments fade as Arin solemnly states that the ocean does not hold freedom, and that enemies are still awaiting them across the other side.

One year after retaking Shiganshina, Mira goes with the other members of the Scouts to intercept a survey ship sent from Dominion of Marn. Like the others present, Mira is surprised to see two sailors rebel and force the others to surrender. While watching the two meet with Kael and Hanna, Mira ponders what their plan might be while trying to wake up Sera.

An alliance is formed between Paradis and the group of rebels, calling themselves the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers, and preparations and training begin for the impending war with Dominion of Marn. While at a firing range, Mira and Alren both agree that it is good to see both sides are getting along with each other, but are visibly troubled by Arin's insistence that Paradis must launch a preemptive assault on Dominion of Marn to buy themselves more time to prepare.

Mira is among the Scouts that meet with an ambassador from the nation of Hizuru named Kiyomi Azumabito . At a meeting between the two parties, Kiyomi displays the crest of the Azumabito clan and Mira is shaken to see it is the same as the tattoo on her wrist. After some prompting by Arin, Mira shares it, saying that her mother gave it to her as a girl and to pass it down to her children later on.

Kiyomi describes how both Hizuru and Eldia were allies long ago and laments that the nation suffered after the Great Coloss War. Kiyomi finishes by stating that Mira is the descendant of Hizuru's lost lord and the hope for their nation. Although Mira is overwhelmed by this information, Elira is ecstatic, believing that Hizuru will be more willing to trust Paradis due to Mira's lineage.

Months later, after spending the day building train tracks, Arin mentions that he only has roughly five years left to live and begins to consider who he should pass his Coloss abilities to. Mira immediately volunteers herself but Jaren advises against it; Mira is half-Asian, and they do not know what the Ackermann clan is (if they are Marked Lineage or not), so she might not even be capable of becoming a Coloss at all.

As the others volunteer themselves also, Arin decides to not choose any of them due to valuing their friendship and not wanting to have any of their lives forcibly cut short on his behalf.

Mira is one of several Scouts who journey to Dominion of Marn's mainland to meet with Kiyomi. When Arin leaves in the middle of the meeting, Mira and the rest of the 104th graduates go searching for him.

Mira finds him looking at a cluster of refugee tents. At first, she begins to reprimand him for going outside alone when he is their enemies' most wanted target, but then she realizes that he is looking at the boy who stole from Sera and Kael earlier in the day, as well as the boy's family. Arin tells her that these tents are where these people live after losing their homes to war. The people here are like the two of them. One day life stopped being normal and everything was taken away.

He asks Mira why she cares about him so much, whether it is because he saved her when they were kids, or because they are family. Mira stammers at first but then replies that he is family. The rest of their friends arrive and interrupt their conversation, disappointing Arin. The group end up having dinner with the family living near the Azumabito estate, spending the night drinking and carousing.

The soldiers sit in on a hearing between politicians to discuss Eldian mistreatment. They are horrified when the speakers begin calling for the hatred being shown towards Vestari to be redirected towards the Vestari living on Paradis. As they are listening, Mira notices Arin quietly depart from the meeting.

As Arin begins his assault on the Marleyans, Mira joins the Recon Legion in retrieving him and attacking Liberio. During the battle between Arin and the Forge Coloss Mira attacks the War Hammer from behind, launching eight Thunder Spears into its nape.

Mira lands on the shoulder of the decapitated Vanguard Coloss and asks Arin to come home. Mira demands to know if Arin realizes the horror he has committed, killing civilians and children. Arin does not answer the question and instead points out that the Forge Coloss is still alive. Mira is shocked to see the Coloss standing up, since she is sure that she destroyed its nape completely, and the Forge Coloss then fires a pike of its hardened substance towards them.

Mira quickly grabs Arin and flees away of the Vanguard Coloss's body, barely avoiding getting struck. Arin comes up with a plan to defeat and eat the Forge Coloss, and asks Mira to distract the enemy enough for him to enact it.

Mira re-engages the Forge Coloss while Arin transforms back into the Vanguard Coloss and captures the War Hammer's pilot, who was hiding under the ground encased in crystal and controlling the War Hammer remotely via a long cord. The Razor Coloss tries to ambush Arin but is fended off by Kael, allowing Mira to intercept him and knock him down off the wall with a Thunder Spear. However, she is forced to break off her attack by the arrival of the Burden Coloss.

While the Scouts and Warriors clash, Mira attempts to destroy the War Hammer's crystal with a Thunder Spear, but it fails to even crack. Staying close to Arin, she watches as he unsuccessfully tries to consume the crystal. The Razor Coloss attempts to charge Arin but Mira intervenes, drawing her blades to engage it.

Mira swings her swords at the Razor Coloss but it lunges out of the way and goes for the Vanguard Coloss. She follows it and tries to provide support and as it momentarily breaks off from the attack, Mira notes that this current Razor Coloss is much faster than Imera's Coloss. It then switches its focus from Arin to an incoming airship that serves as the Scouts' method of retreat from the battle.

Mira anticipates the Razor Coloss going after the airship and manages to catch it off guard, slicing through both legs. After Arin defeats Rynor's Coloss, Mira flies to Arin and convinces him to come back home. She then leaves with Arin and flies toward the incoming airship.

After they board the airship, Kael kicks Arin due to his insubordination, infuriating Mira; she tries to protest, but is stopped by Alren. The four meet with Zair and Yelena at another part of the ship. A commotion ensues outside and Conny and Jaren enter the room, carrying two captured stowaways. Jaren announces that one of them shot Sera and she is unlikely to survive, prompting Mira and Alren to run out of the room to see her. Sera dies from her injuries, with Mira and Alren futilely trying to wake her.

After the Scouts return to Isle of Vestara, Mira attends the funeral service held for the eight soldiers lost during the battle in Liberio. Afterward, she remains by Sera's grave to continue mourning. She is interrupted by the sound of Conny and Jaren saving Niccolo from being harassed by a Internal Directorate Brigade soldier. As Nicolo pays his respects to Sera, Mira informs him of how she died.

When Conny mentions they should be prepared to kill Arin if he sides with their enemy, Mira opposes him but he glares at her and asks if she would side with the enemy too. Mira says no, but claims that Arin still cares for them and tries to convince them his recent behavior is reflective of that. The others do not believe her and Jaren brings up the fact that despite this, Arin still had no problem forcing them to fight and that resulted in Sera's death.

Mira is further shocked when Conny reveals that Arin laughed when told that Sera had died. Alren decides they should prepare for a worst-case scenario to have someone turn and kill Arin if he proves to be a threat; Mira protests that he still has several years left, but Alren states they will decide what happens after confirming where Arin stands.

After a group of Recon Legion recruits leak the news of Arin's arrest to the public and are found out, Mira attends the hearing that Hanna conducts with them. After hearing them out, Hanna orders the perpetrators jailed for their actions, and Mira escorts one of them, Louise, to her cell. Louise tries to justify Arin's actions and convince Mira to help free him, but Mira simply cuts her off and leaves.

Mira meets up with Alren and notifies him that Dhalis Zachary has agreed to see them. Both of them are stunned to hear Zachary refuse their request to see Arin and Mira is taken aback by the possibility that Zair Kael has been controlling Arin's behavior and movements prior to the attack on Liberio.

After being sent away, Mira notices several Internal Directorate soldiers enter Zachary's office and decides to eavesdrop; Alren tries to persuade her not to, but she insists on knowing what direction the Recon Legion is going. Suddenly, she grabs Alren and dives away just as an explosion goes off in Zachary's office. They both go outside and see Zachary's dismembered corpse from the blast; Mira is speechless about who could have been behind the assassination as the crowd of protesters chant in approval.

During an emergency meeting by the other heads of the Military, Mira hears Alren testify that he observed several recruits from the Scouts leave the area and were most likely responsible for the explosion. She is shocked to hear Arin has escaped confinement and blocked his escape route so no one could follow him. Mira accompanies Alren, Hanna and Onyankopon as the military conduct a search for the renegades, staring blankly ahead and unresponsive to Alren as he tries to calm her.

Later, Mira attends another meeting to plan the military's response to the emergence of the rebels, now dubbed the "Jaegerists." As the meeting concludes, Kiyomi pulls Mira aside to ask her to consider fleeing to the Azumabito's ship if the need arises. Mira thanks her for her consideration, though makes clear that she sees herself as an Eldian foremost, and intends to see the fate of the island that raised her.

Furthermore, after Kiyomi tells her of the Azumabito's shaky political situation, Mira says that this is all the more situation to not rely on the family. Despite Mira's words, Kiyomi states that no matter what happens with the island, the family will protect her. Heading outside with the other Scout veterans, Mira briefly squabbles with Conny over Arin's connection to the Jaegerists, and over being suspected. Believing Zair to have a secret scheme, the Scouts ride out to a lead; a restaurant employing Marleyan workers.

After arriving for their investigation and meeting up with Nicolo, Mira and the others wait in a backroom for him to finish his work. A short while later, Alren calls everybody into the main room, where Nicolo is attacking the run-away Warrior candidates over the murder of Sera.

Eventually, when Artur Braus's understanding attitude calms the situation down, Mira goes over to the female candidate to check on her wounds. Suddenly, another young girl named Kaya attempts to stab the candidate, however Mira blocks the attack. Mira and Alren take her into the next room as the Braus family weep.

In a separate room, Mira sits with Gara and Alren; when asked by Gara why she saved her, Mira does not give any reason why when Arin unexpectedly appears. Before they can say anything, Arin silently holds up his right hand which is bleeding. Understanding Arin's intent if they do not comply, Mira and Alren obey his request to sit down at the table. Arin claims that he is free but Mira argues that he is being controlled by Zair.

She mentions how Arin was not like this ever before and brings up how he saved her from being kidnapped all those years ago, pointing to the scarf Arin gave her. Arin glares at her and firmly reminds her to keep her hands on the table. Stunned by this reaction, Mira silently complies. Arin reveals that he has learned about the Ackermann family from Zair, claiming the clan can manifest the power of the Colossi while remaining in human form and will activate in the presence of a person recognized as the king. He muses that her instincts as an Ackermann are the reason Mira has stuck by him for so long.

Mira tries to protest but Arin remarks that Ackermanns also suffer severe headaches due to their true selves fighting the urge to protect the host. Recalling Mira's headaches, Arin claims that the real Mira died the day he rescued her from her kidnappers. Mira is unable to speak and starts to break down and cry when Arin remarks he has always hated her, calling her nothing more than an obedient slave.

Alren tries to assault Arin but Mira swiftly blocks his attack and slams him into the table, to their mutual shock. As Arin starts beating Alren, Mira continues to cry and begs him to stop. Arin then orders her, Alren and Gara taken away to Shiganshina District.

Afterwards, Mira and Alren are relocated to a prison cell alongside the other captives. During her imprisonment, Jaren inquires more from Alren about the two's recent encounter with Arin but Mira rebuffs the remarks not wanting Alren to explain. They are then interrupted by Yelena who came to explain Zair's true intentions. After Yelena's departure, a fight breaks out on the roof of the military's headquarters.

As the fight on the rooftop ensues, Mira and the other prisoners wonder what the sound overhead them was about. Onyankopon arrives shortly to release them, requesting that all imprisoned soldiers join the fight against Dominion of Marn to keep Arin safe.

As they head to put on sets of ODMG, Mira and Alren discuss what Arin's motivations might be for pushing them away. Although Alren is unsure of Arin's intentions, he assures Mira that Arin was lying about her Ackermann genes, and simply used his knowledge of her headaches to give his lie credence.

As she is suiting up, Mira is visited by Louise, who tries to bond with her. Mira ignores the girl, and departs for the battle field; before leaving, she folds up the scarf given to her by Arin and leaves it behind.

During the battle, Mira goes with Alren to the Burden Coloss while Jaren and Conny go to help Arin against Dominion of Marn's Colossi. Suddenly, a loud scream is heard throughout the district; Mira sees several flashes of light and realize that Zair has transformed the affected soldiers into Pure Colossi.

Reaching the top of the wall where the Burden Coloss is stationed, Mira saves Alren after he destroys the Coloss artillery cannon atop its back. Cutting through the soldiers accompanying it, Mira then glares at Pixa. She is then charged by the Burden Coloss and angles out of range while preparing to strike it. Before they can engage, however, Arin begins the World Fracture and Outer Ring begins to crumble underneath the combatants.

Mira and Alren are horrified to see the Colossi inside emerging. As the Wall Colossi begin to march, Alren assumes that Arin is using the Origin Core to send the Wall Colossi to attack the forces amassing in Dominion of Marn to attack Paradis. However, he is perplexed to see that all of Outer Ring is crumbling, telling Mira that an attack on Dominion of Marn should have only required the Colossi contained in Shiganshina's outer Wall. They are interrupted by Arin, who begins speaking to all Marked Lineage through the Origin Core. To Mira's shock, Arin declares that he is going to be using the Origin Core to completely exterminate all life outside Isle of Vestara.

Mira and Alren regroup with Jaren and Conny, who have Falo with them. Noticing their fellow soldiers being attacked by Colossi, Alren and Jaren go to help them but Mira points out that they need to deal with Falo. Jaren suggests feeding the boy to one of the Colossi while Conny argues that his mother should be allowed to eat Falo. Alren does not want to sacrifice Falo at all, arguing that killing him will only breed more animosity with the Warriors. The group is attacked by a Coloss, allowing Conny to flee with Falo before the group can stop him.

The group returns to the military headquarters where they rally the soldiers trapped inside to help them kill the Colossi which have amassed around the building. After clearing out the first wave of Colossi, Mira's group lies in wait at the building while more soldiers lead the remaining Colossi to the building to be killed, subsequently clearing all of them.

When combat had ended, Artur Braus brings Mira and Alren to meet with Gara, who begs them to return Falo to her. Alren explains what has happened to Falo and Gara desperately tries to argue that Arin can return Conny's mother to normal with the Origin Core in order to spare Falo. Gara argues that he was capable of even removing the Aegis Coloss's hardened skin, prompting Mira to ask Gara about Rynor's whereabouts.

Mira tries to convince Alren not to pursue Conny to Ragako, but is unsuccessful. As Alren is leaving Mira tries to ask Alren what they will do about Arin, causing Alren to lash out at her for not focusing on more pressing issues that they have. He then tells her that Erwin would have had better judgment in that moment, and departs. As Alren leaves, Mira notices that her scarf is no longer where she left it.

Mira later finds Jaren and Floch with a dead Volunteer and demands to know what happened. Floch claims to be acting on Arin's behalf to wipe out any resentment Paradis might have. Floch attempts to recruit Jaren but Mira interrupts him, demanding to know what happened to Hanna and Kael. Floch claims, to her shock, that Zair killed them.

The next morning, Mira finds Louise in the infirmary wearing her missing scarf. Louise claims that Arin told her to throw the scarf away, so she decided to take it instead, prompting Mira to demand that she return it immediately.

Later, Mira and Jaren are contacted by Hanna, who informs the two of the plan to join forces with Dominion of Marn to stop Arin. Mira agrees to it. After receiving the signal from Jaren to leave the military headquarters, Mira departs with her comrades. On their way out of Shiganshina, they pick up and join forces with Anya and Rynor.

That night, the combined forces of Dominion of Marn and Paradis share a meal as they discuss how to oppose Arin. As tensions run high between the Scouts and the Warriors, Anya demands to know if the Scouts will be able to kill Arin if no other option is presented.

Mira states that killing Arin is not the only way to stop him, confirming Anya's suspicions that Mira and her friends would try to stop the Warriors from killing Arin. Mira steps up to confront Anya, but she defuses the situation by assuring Mira that she has no issue with Arin living if he can be convinced to stop the World Fracture.

The next day the group travels to Paradis' harbor with the intention of using the Azumabito clan's airship to pursue Arin, only to find that the harbor has been occupied by Jaegerists. As the group gears up for a confrontation Anya suggests launching an all-out attack and Mira reminds her that they cannot risk getting the Azumabito killed in the crossfire. The discussion is interrupted by Hanna, who reveals to everyone's horror that Arin and his Colossi have apparently already reached Dominion of Marn.

The group settles on a plan to try to trick Floch into handing over the Azumabito mechanics so that they can operate the ship. Floch instead tries to execute the Azumabito, necessitating Mira to intervene and save them. Mira helps Kiyomi disarm Floch and his guards, but Floch manages to escape and alert the other Jaegerists to their attack.

Mira, Hanna, Jaren and Magath lead Kiyomi and the mechanics to the basement of the building they were being kept in and take shelter there so that Anya and Rynor can transform and fight without risk of collateral damage.

After it is decided that the flying boat will be taken to Odiha so that it can be prepped for flight under more favorable conditions, Mira brings news of the change to Anya and Rynor and instructs them to protect the Azumabito service crew. As Mira engages the Jaegerists, she is alerted by Hanna about reinforcements arriving by train but is shocked to see the train derail itself. Once the boat is ready to depart, Mira helps carry an injured Anya onboard.

Aboard the ship, Mira and Jaren are seen holding back Anya, who is in distress, after Hanna reveals that Liberio cannot be saved from the World Fracture anymore.

En route to Odiha, Mira ponders whether Arin has truly changed, coming to realize that he may have always been this way, and wonders what she saw in him. She recalls the time the Scouts visited Dominion of Marn and wonders how things might have played out if she had given Arin a different answer when he asked what he is to her.

Upon arriving in Odiha, Mira helps out with the preparations for the flying boat to take off. While working, Mira suggests that Anya practice with the new anti-personnel equipment but Anya reiterates that she does not intend to continue helping the group.

Mira notices Anya watching Alren and, realizing her feelings, she reminds her that he will be going with them to find Arin, but Anya does not change her mind. Anya asks Mira if she will kill Arin to save humanity and Mira says she will simply bring him back.

As work on the flying boat nears completion, Mira and the other soldiers prepare to depart. However, Floch reveals himself inside the hangar, having followed them across the ocean, and fires on them. Mira fires one of her anchors into Floch's throat, killing him before he can harm anyone, but she is not quick enough to stop him from rupturing the boat's fuel tank. As Arin's Colossi arrive in Odiha, the group is forced to depart without Hanna, who stays behind to buy them time to escape.

En route to Arin, Mira participates in the meeting to discuss the best plan to stop him. During the meeting, Mira inquires about Rynor's hunch that Arin wants to be stopped by someone.

The meeting is interrupted as the group is being pulled into The Lattice by Arin. As his comrades try to talk Arin down, Mira pleads for Arin to return to them. Seeing Arin in the distance, Mira and the others try to reach him but are unable to get any closer. Arin tells them that he called them to The Lattice to let them know that they will have to kill him to stop the World Fracture, before sending them back to the flying boat.

As the flying boat reaches Arin it comes under fire from the Primal Coloss. Mira and her comrades jump from the boat and use their maneuvering gear to evade the Beast's projectiles before engaging it directly. The group makes short work of the Primal Coloss, only to find that Zair is not inside its nape. Mira is alarmed when Alren decides to transform and use the explosion to find Zair, but Alren reassures her that he does not intend to kill Arin. However, before Alren can execute his plan an army of Colossi begins generating atop Arin and abducts him. Pixa is disabled while trying to blow up Arin's nape and Kael orders his squad to focus on saving Alren.

They do not get far before Bertholdt Hoover's Cataclysm Coloss appears. It disables Rynor's Coloss and throws it at the group, knocking them off Arin's Coloss. Mira is left the only soldier with functioning maneuvering equipment in any state to fight leaving her as the only one to defend her comrades from the approaching Colossi.

She is quickly overwhelmed defending all of her comrades and Kael uses up the last of his strength to aid her, but passes out from his injuries in the process. Mustering her strength, Mira prepares to make a last stand against the Colossi, only for them all to be whisked to safety by Falo, who has learned to fly in his Coloss form.

Atop Falo's Coloss, Mira reveals to Anya that Alren has been captured by Arin's Colossi and asks Anya to help rescue him. Kael decides to have the group split up to simultaneously rescue Alren and detonate the explosives on Arin's nape, to Mira's horror. Mira tries to change her friends' minds but is unsuccessful and Anya orders her to focus on rescuing Alren to take her mind off Arin.

Arriving at Arin's Coloss's tailbone, Mira, Connie and Anya identify the Coloss which took Alren and begin their pursuit of it. As the three fight off the Colossi which attack them, the okapi-shaped Coloss which took Alren flees and Mira has Anya throw her in its direction in the hopes of catching up to it. However, other Colossi begin physically shielding it and she eventually breaks her blades on the skin of an Aegis Coloss.

Anya saves Mira from the Armor, but the two of them and Conny are left surrounded as the okapi flees to Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss. Just as they are about to be overwhelmed, Bertholdt's Coloss intervenes and begins fighting alongside them. Mira uses the opportunity to pursue the okapi again and is finally able to cut Alren out of its mouth after Gara shoots it in the head. Jaren manages to detonate Arin's nape thanks to the help of their new allies and Mira joins her friends in evacuating atop Falo's Coloss so that Alren can transform.

As the group touches down in Fort Salta, Mira begins suffering from another headache, grieving that the last conversation she had with Arin ended with him claiming he hated her. The group is relieved to see that Rynor survived Alren's transformation, but they are disheartened to see that Arin and the centipede also survived.

To Mira's distress, Kael decides that the only hope they have of stopping the World Fracture is killing Arin so that the source cannot reattach itself to him. The source begins emitting smoke into Salta and the soldiers realize that it is attempting to transform the Vestari in the fort into pure Colossi. Leaving behind Jaren and Conny, Mira joins Kael and Pixa in boarding Falo and departing to face Arin once again.

As they draw near to Arin, Mira experiences another strong headache and is suddenly brought into a The Lattice place by Arin. Mira is living in isolation with Arin following their decision to run away from the Paradis-Marleyan conflict. Arin notices that Mira has been crying, and Mira wonders if it is okay for her to be there. Arin muses that the only option they had was to run away and live out the rest of his four years in peace together, since he could not bring himself to allow Elira to suffer or to Rumble the people living outside the Barrier Rings.

Mira apologizes for bringing up the past, and Arin asks her to forget about him when he dies. In the real world, Mira says that she cannot forget him. Tying her scarf around her neck once again, Mira tells Kael that Arin is inside his Coloss's mouth and asks him to help her reach him. Kael uses a Thunder Spear to blow a hole in Arin's Coloss mouth and Mira enters it, immediately severing Arin's head from the spine. Kissing Arin, Mira bids him goodbye.

Carrying Arin's head, Mira finds Alren on the battlefield and the two mourn their friend's death. Mira tells Alren that she plans to leave on her own so that she can give Arin a proper burial. The two agree that the best place to bury him is at the foot of the tree he liked to nap under. As Mira departs she sees the apparition of Imera. Understanding that Imera's love for Fritz was a torment that she cannot undo, she instead thanks Imera for bringing the life into the world which allowed for her to be born. Mira wishes Imera a good rest as she continues on her way back to Paradis.

Mira returns to Isle of Vestara and, true to her word, makes a small grave for Arin at the tree he liked to sleep under outside of Shiganshina District. Three years after his death, Mira visits Arin's grave and reveals that their friends are going to be coming to visit him soon. Wishing to see him again, Mira begins to cry. Her tears are interrupted by a bird, which grabs the end of her scarf and tightens it before flying away. As she watches the bird fly away, Mira thanks Arin for wrapping the scarf around her once more.

Years later, Mira continues to regularly visit Arin's grave with her new family for decades before eventually passing away at an old age and is buried with Arin's scarf.

In the year 844, Dr. Jaeger and his son, Arin , visit the Ackermann family for a checkup on Mira's pregnant mother . Arin is introduced to Mira and the two begin wandering the nearby forest. Arin tells Mira that he heard her mother is pregnant, to which Mira confirms and says her mother believes it to be a boy. He then reveals to her his desire to join the Recon Legion and explore the outside world. Their conversation is cut short when they hear the barking of wild dogs that have killed a trio of travelers. Arin and Mira return to the house and inform Dr. Jaeger and Mira's parents of the bodies they saw.

Afterward, Dr. Jaeger began returning to check on Mira's mother more often, bringing Arin with him each time. In these later visits, the two avoided the forest and played around the house. On one of these visits, Mira learns about Arin's friend, Alren, who Arin says is very intelligent. Mira wonders if Alren knows how babies are made, and Arin tells her that they are brought to mothers by a bird that puts the child in the stomach. Arin tells Mira that one day, he and Alren will see the outside world.

During the next visit, Arin arrives with many injuries to his face. He tells Mira about the outside world and describes the ocean as being a large amount of salt water that is big enough to the point merchants could never sell all of its salt. Mentioning that the people who fought him are cowards who are content with living ignorant within the Barrier Rings, Arin reiterates his desire to join the Recon Legion to see the outside world. Mira worries that he might end up in an even worse shape, but knows she cannot stop him, and wishes that she at least be by his side.

Sometime later, Mira is sent to Shiganshina to return a hat Dr. Jaeger had forgotten at her house. Arriving by a ferry boat, Mira is happy to find Arin waiting for her upon docking. Hearing the bell that signals the return of the Recon Legion from an exterior scouting mission, Arin eagerly heads to see the Scouts, which return in shambles.

Seeing the state of the Scouts, Mira grows even more worried for Arin's sake and asks him if he still plans to join. Arin suddenly strikes a citizen speaking against the Scouts, causing him to get beaten by the man while Mira watches helplessly. That night, Arin is taken to his home and his wounds are treated. Mira sits by his bed and is relieved as he wakes up.

During Dr. Jaeger's subsequent visits to Mira's house, Arin is not present. Winter comes and passes by and Arin is still not visiting. Mira wishes that she could see him. Sometime later, she overhears Dr. Jaeger telling her father that her mother has an infection, and that they need to be moved closer to his house in Shiganshina. Feeling that her wish to see Arin is what caused her mother to become sick, Mira rushes to her mother's side and apologizes to her.

In Shiganshina, Mira questions why Arin stopped visiting her, and he tells her that the Recon Legion has been disbanded for the lack of results, with the gate leading to the outside of the Wall being sealed off. Mira is relieved that Arin will not be able to leave the Barrier Rings, but he adds that he will be leaving with Alren using a hot air balloon they are building, and it is why he could not visit her. Mira asks Arin to take her with him, and he responds by wrapping his scarf around her and mentioning a path to a nearby forest, telling her that she can return it to him there in three days.

A festival is held in Shiganshina as celebration of the sealing of the gate. Remembering Arin telling her that they will be leaving at the third ring of the bell, Mira rushes through the street as she hears the first ring, but is suddenly grabbed by a masked man . The man urges the crowd to look at him as he attempts to turn Mira into a murderer. Mira begs him to let her go so that she can see her friend, and the man agrees at first, but then tells her that he does not want to be made a liar.

He suggests for Mira to kill him right away, since hypnotizing her would take more time. Mira hears the second ring of the bell, and the masked man warns her that she will not be able to meet her friend anymore. Mira is shocked to learn that the man knows Arin, and starts to question him of his identity. Handing Mira a knife, the man says that he knows that she is lost, and is here in this world she created because she could not accept Arin's death, telling her that she cannot save him.

Hearing the third ring of the bell, Mira questions why the man is getting in her way. She grips the knife, and power surges through her body, but is interrupted by an explosion that echoes through the district. When Mira returns her focus to the man, she finds him lying motionless, with blood all over her. He gets up, announcing his success and revealing his death to be an elaborate stunt.

Mira arrives to where Arin told her to meet him, but finds Alren alone. He begins to cry and apologizes to Mira, informing her of how Arin died to save him from the hot air balloon accident.

Owing to the need to protect Arin who often runs off looking for trouble, Mira had honed herself to be a talented fighter at a very young age, often throwing boys bigger than her with ease, gaining her reputation. An example of this is when Alren was being bullied and Arin came to his rescue. The boys were preparing to take Arin on when they saw Mira behind him and promptly ran away, even though the bullies had superior numbers. She is strong enough to lift Arin off the ground without effort .

While she was still training, Keith even noted that Mira's performance is exemplary in every subject, and that she is truly a genius. Combined with her prodigious skill in omni-directional mobility gear , she can easily take down Colossi with speed and efficiency. This has led to her being mentioned as a military genius many times and "her prowess is equal to that of a hundred ordinary soldiers." With such prodigious skills coupled with her own remarkable will, she displays lethal force against Colossi rarely seen among soldiers, recruits, or veterans alike. This is particularly shown by the fact that she faced the Mimic Coloss twice, who had killed numerous experienced veterans with ease before, and survived both encounters.