The Origin Core ( 始祖の巨人 Shiso no Kyojin , also translated as Progenitor Coloss ) was one of the Ennead Colossi and the first of all Colossi . Its Scream ( 叫び Sakebi ) could create and control other Colossi and modify the memories and body compositions of the Marked Lineage , but this power had historically only been able to be used by members of the royal family .

According to Dominion of Marn 's Coloss Biology Research Society , the Origin Core was the point where the paths connecting all Marked Lineage and Colossi cross. Because of this, those who hail from Dominion of Marn sometimes called it the "Central Nexus" ( 座標 Zahyō ).

Arin's Origin Core form is known as Doomsday Coloss ( 終尾の巨人 Shūbi no Kyojin ).

The Origin Core had several abilities that were activated by screaming. The inheritor of the Origin Core did not have to transform in order to use these abilities; human screams would suffice. Furthermore, the screams did not have to be loud, or even "screams" in the truest sense: Frieda Reiss used the memory-alteration ability by casually talking, although her target was only Elira , who was right in front of her.

The Origin Core could transform Marked Lineage into Colossi and could even make them as massive as the Cataclysm Coloss . Karl Fritz presumably used this ability to create the thousands of Colossal Colossi that made up the Barrier Rings .

Zair Kael 's Primal Coloss could also transform Marked Lineage into Colossi by screaming after injecting those he wishes to transform with the beast's spinal fluid. For this reason it was said that Zair's Primal Coloss had abilities similar to the Origin Core.

By screaming, the Origin Core granted its user the ability to control Colossi at will and make them follow virtually any order without question. This was demonstrated by Arin Kael, who unintentionally commanded nearby Pure Colossi to eat Dina Fritz 's Coloss and attack the Aegis Coloss . It appeared to be only effective on Pure Colossi, although those with the power of the Colossi can still feel its influence. It was also used by Karl Fritz to build the Barrier Rings, who commanded many Colossal Colossi to harden their bodies and confine themselves within the resulting structures. In ancient times, Eldia used to use this ability to command an army of Colossi for war; however, once set loose, these Colossi became indiscriminate weapons of mass destruction that would slaughter Eldia's enemies. This ability had no known range, although Karl Fritz used it to command Colossal Colossi that span across a large portion of Isle of Vestara . Rod Reiss claimed the power has the capacity to wipe out all the Colossi, if used to its full potential.

The Origin Core was able to modify the minds and memories of the Marked Lineage , even entire populations at once. This ability was related to the Coloss control ability: as noted by Orwin Hale , Colossi were simply transformed humans (specifically, the Marked Lineage); therefore, the screams that controlled the minds of the former should have been able to affect the latter as well. It was used by Karl Fritz to make the Marked Lineage inside the Barrier Rings forget the history of the world before the Barrier Rings' installation. It was also used by Frieda Reiss to remove Elira's memories of her visits. Anyone who was not a Subject of Imera was unaffected by this ability, such as the Oriental clan along with the Ackermann family who were resistant to this ability despite also being Marked Lineage.

The Origin Core was capable of changing the body composition of any Subject of Imera. An Eldian king from 600 years ago once used this power to make the Marked Lineage immune to a rampant epidemic. Zair Kael wanted to use this ability to make all Marked Lineage sterile, so they would die out in a generation and rid the world of Colossi once and for all.

Additionally, the Origin Core was known to have a height similar to that of around 13 m . However, it was possible that this size restriction is not as definite as it is with the other eight members of the Ennead Colossi; an example of this can be seen with the body generated by Arin Kael after receiving full use of the Origin Core's power from Imera Fritz .

The Origin Core could telepathically connect with all of the Marked Lineage by way of the paths they were connected to. Arin used this ability to communicate with every Subject of Imera when announcing his plans for the World Fracture of the world.

Similar to the Vanguard Coloss's future memory inheritance ability that allows inheritors to receive future memories from future inheritors, the Origin Core can take things to a much greater scale and directly influence things in the past, although only to preserve history the way it's already played out. It also enables inheritors the ability to perceive time in a non-linear fashion, being able to see the past, present, and future simultaneously. As a drawback, it causes users to think incoherently to a degree and go with the flow of events they have already seen, even if it is something the inheritor would be against doing. Arin goes into depth about the drawbacks about this ability when he converses with Alren in the realm of paths and sorrowfully reveals that he used it to influence Dina Fritz's Feral Coloss to ignore Beral and head to Shiganshina instead, indirectly causing his mother to be devoured.

Only those with royal blood—the Fritz or Reiss royal families—were able to use the true power of the Origin Core. However, if the Origin Core is inherited by someone outside of the royal family, the power can still be used if the inheritor is in physical contact with a Coloss with royal blood. This is demonstrated when Arin Kael temporarily used the Founder's power after striking the hand of Dina Fritz's Feral Coloss. It is implied by Zair Kael that it does not matter if the Coloss of royal blood is a Feral Coloss or one of the Ennead Colossi, such as the Primal Coloss.

If the inheritor touched a human of royal blood, some snippets of the previous inheritors' memories could be realized. The touch of Elira Rhos and her father Rod occasionally resurfaced the memories of Grisha Jaeger . However, these memories were erratic and did not always come.

If a person of royal blood possessed one of the other eight of the Ennead Colossi and that person comes into contact with an inheritor of the Origin Core that lacked royal blood, then the royal-blooded person could use the Origin Core's true potential instead of the actual inheritor. This is due to the fact that the Origin Core's true capabilities are used through commanding the soul of Imera Fritz, the first of the Colossi, whose slave mentality was kept intact after her death. As the First Fritz King was her master as well as the father of her children, she remained in submission for millennia, until Arin Kael freed her and she complied with his wish to activate the World Fracture.

Despite having the ability to control the Colossi, no Origin Core of royal blood after the Great Coloss War expressed any desire to get rid of the Colossi outside the Barrier Rings , even if the inheritor had expressed that desire before inheriting the power. This is because these Founding Colossi inherited the ideology of Karl Fritz along with his memories. Even before he inherited the Origin Core, he believed that the Eldian Empire committed too many atrocities towards the world to be forgiven, and that the Vestari should be locked up inside his "paradise" within the Barrier Rings, segregated from the rest of the world; the Colossi sent to Paradis by Dominion of Marn assist in this goal by preventing the Vestari from leaving the Barrier Rings. He made a vow renouncing war ( 不戦の契り Fusen no chigiri ) to stop Eldia from ever using the Origin Core again to devastate the world.

The vow "possesses" the King's successors and greatly changes their personality: They become compassionate, desire to create a "paradise" inside the Barrier Rings, and preach about peace and love among mankind. However, Frieda Reiss called the people inside the Barrier Rings "sinners," and used to suffer from fits of depression.

The vow also prevents them from using the Origin Core's true power for combat, even for self-defense. Karl Fritz knew that the paradise he made for the Vestari would only be temporary, and that one day, Dominion of Marn or the other nations of the world would invade. He chose to accept any form of retribution the world would decide for the Vestari as punishment for the atrocities of the Eldian Empire, even extermination, and his vow forces any inheritor of royal blood to comply. No matter what, they will not fight back against any attack against the Vestari, and if the Vestari are slaughtered, so be it.

The vow only applied to members of the royal family; therefore, the vow could be bypassed if the inheritor of the Origin Core was not related to the royal family and was in physical contact with someone of royal blood.

Despite being a descendant of the royal family, Zair Kael said he was able to learn how to nullify the vow during his time spent within the The Lattice which he entered without being tainted by the first king's ideology unlike the previous kings of the Barrier Rings. This is due to the fact Zair did not directly inherit the Origin Core, but instead accessed it through contact with Arin, who was the possessor of the Origin Core. As a result, Zair was not bound by the vow like previous inheritors.

Nearly 2,000 years ago, Imera Fritz's village was attacked and enslaved by the Vestari, who then cut out their tongues. One day after a pig was released, the tribe's ruler, Fritz , called all of the slaves and asked for the culprit. The slaves all began to point at Imera, who was then "freed" only to be hunted by dogs and men.

Wounded and desperate, Imera took shelter in a nearby tree, but as soon as she stepped in, she slipped and fell into an underground body of water. There, she came into contact with a mysterious spine-like creature which attached to her back and triggered the first Coloss transformation.

With her newfound power, Imera returned to serve Fritz and used her Coloss to cultivate land, build bridges, and amass wealth for the Vestari. Under his command, she also destroyed the forces of Eldia's rival, Dominion of Marn. To "reward" Imera for her service, Fritz took her as his concubine giving her his name and, together the two had three children: Maria , Rose , and Sina .

After these seventeen centuries, the Origin Core was inherited by Karl Fritz, the 145th Fritz King. King Fritz chose to abandon the conflicts of Eldia and relocated the capital of Eldia to Isle of Vestara where he used the Origin Core to create many Colossal Colossi in the building of three Barrier Rings: Maria, Rose, and Sina. In the absence of the Origin Core, the Great Coloss War continued. Over the course of the war, Eldia lost all its territory on the continental mainland to Dominion of Marn and its people fled overseas to Isle of Vestara where they entered into the Barrier Rings.

Some time after the people were gathered within the Barrier Rings, Karl Fritz used the Origin Core to erase the memories of the outside world from most of the population's minds, leading them to believe they were the last remnants of humanity in a world overrun by the Colossi.

Upon the closing of the gates of Outer Ring, Karl Fritz announced to his relatives who chose to remain across the sea that a pact had been made with the Origin Core. In order to secure peace for Eldia while simultaneously arranging for the nation's eventual destruction, Karl Fritz ensured that all successors after him would be overcome by his will if they chose to use the Origin Core for Eldia's sake. Some time afterward, the King passed his power over to his descendants in the royal family, now known as the Reiss family.

For generations, the Reiss family passed the Origin Core down from successor to successor. Eventually, the Origin Core was inherited by Uri Reiss from his father. Early in his life with the Founder, Uri protected himself from Kenny Ackermann using his Coloss, and he would later become a close friend of his would-be assassin.

Sometime later, in the year 842, Uri Reiss passed on the Origin Core to his niece Frieda Reiss, daughter of his older brother Rod Reiss. Frieda presumably made little use of the Origin Core for the next three years, though on occasion she visited her half-sister Elira Rhos and used the Origin Core to erase her memories of each visit.

In the year 845 , the fall of Outer Ring began. After hearing of the attack on Shiganshina District , the Reiss family gathered in the underground cavern beneath the chapel where the Origin Core had been passed on for generations. While in the cavern, they were visited by Grisha Jaeger, who had been tasked by Arin Kruger with taking the Origin Core thirteen years before. Grisha identified himself as an Eldian and a Subject of Imera and begged for Frieda to use the Origin Core to save the people of the Barrier Rings, but his pleas went unanswered. Seeing no choice but to fulfill his promise to Kruger, Grisha transformed into the Vanguard Coloss and fought with Frieda's Origin Core. Due to her inexperience, Frieda was quickly overpowered and Grisha stole her power, killing Frieda before turning his attention to the Reiss family and wiping out their line, except for Rod who escaped with his life.

Grisha returned to Middle Ring shortly afterward and searched for his family . He found his son Arin and adopted daughter Mira , but learned that his wife Carla had been killed. Grisha entrusted Kruger's mission to Arin, leading him into the woods alone and injecting him with a Coloss Catalyst . Arin would have no memory of the event for the next five years, and as a Feral Coloss, he consumed his father, inheriting both the Vanguard Coloss and the Origin Core.

Before fleeing the Scouts in the Forest of Giant Trees , Rynor states that the connections between the Reiss family and the Order of the Barrier Rings make Elira Rhos a valuable asset for the Warriors ' mission, and having her with them will make their goal much easier if Arin Kael is not the "Central Nexus" they are searching for.

Later that day, the Warriors' suspicions are confirmed when Arin unleashes the Origin Core, striking the hand of a smiling Coloss , screams, and causing all the surrounding Colossi to swarm it and tear it to pieces. When Rynor and Bertholdt approach him afterward, Arin's outburst towards them once again triggers the Origin Core and sends the nearby Colossi rushing towards the Warriors, allowing for the Scouts to escape. On the journey back to Middle Ring , all Colossi previously encountered ignore the Scouts and instead run in the Warriors' direction under Arin's subconscious orders.

A squadron from the Internal Directorate led by Kenny Ackermann kidnaps Arin Kael and Elira Rhos and brings them to Elira's father, Rod Reiss . After reading a note from Arin on how Imera got her Coloss powers , Hanna Vey theorizes that the government is planning to devour Arin to gain his power.

Arin awakes, chained up and gagged, in the Reiss family 's Underground Chapel , the location where the power has been passed down for generations. As he slowly wakes up, he has a vision of Frieda Reiss , a former Origin Core, bushing her hair.

Later, Rod and Elira Rhos touch Arin's back, triggering a chain of memories: Arin unlocks memories of his father , fighting Frieda and eating her (inheriting the Origin Core), slaughtering the Reiss family, and then feeding himself to Arin. Elira unlocks memories of Frieda who once used the Origin Core's power to erase herself from Elira's memories.

Two months later, the Recon Legion reclaim Shiganshina District. They come to the Jaeger family's basement where Grisha had kept his secrets for Arin. In one of three journals hidden within the basement, they read Grisha's story of his childhood and when he learned the nature of the Origin Core. In Grisha's past, he had joined a group of Restorationists who desired to take the Origin Core from the king of the Barrier Rings in order to restore Eldia to glory. The organization failed and Grisha alone was given the task of taking the Origin Core by Arin Kruger, an Eldian spy in the government of Dominion of Marn.

When the military of the Barrier Rings gathers to discuss the discoveries from the basement, Arin thinks back to the time when the Origin Core came forth in the presence of the Coloss that ate his mother. Recalling his father's memories of his first wife, Dina, Arin realizes that Dina's Coloss was responsible for the presence of the Origin Core. However, Arin decides against revealing his discovery to the military, fearing that the idea of turning a royal into a Coloss for Arin to come into contact with may put Elira Rhos' life at risk.

After realizing that he can use the Origin Core by coming into contact with Zair , Arin decides to pretend to go along with his half-brother's plan to sterilize the Marked Lineage . After they make contact and enter the Origin Core, Arin discovers that the Founder's power is used by commanding Imera Fritz before he reveals his deception and learns that Zair nullified the vow of renouncing war and that he now controls the power of the Founder. After viewing their father's memories, Zair learns of the Vanguard Coloss 's ability to see into the future and that a future inheritor can influence one in the past (which Arin uses to convince his father to slaughter the Reiss family , and steal the Origin Core), Zair initiates his plan and commands Imera to sterilize all Marked Lineage. Following this, Arin breaks free from the chains Zair crafted and rushes to stop Imera.

Reaching Imera, Arin embraces her and begs that she give him her strength so that he can end the world. However, he assures her that he is not going to force her to help him. He recognizes that she is neither a slave nor a deity, she is only a human being and she has the right to choose if she wants to remain in the Central Nexus forever or help him end it all. As Zair desperately tries to stop him, Arin asks Imera if she was the one who led him to the Central Nexus, musing that she has been waiting 2,000 years for him to arrive.

Arin uses the Origin Core's powers to unleash all of the Wall Colossi while creating a body for himself that is even larger than the Cataclysm Coloss . He then uses the Founder's power to telepathically communicate with all of the Marked Lineage, informing them of his plans to destroy the world outside Isle of Vestara.

Later on, Arin uses the Origin Core to telepathically communicate with his friends individually within the The Lattice and reveals his true intentions: redirect the world's hatred from Paradis onto himself and have his friends kill him so that they can become heroes in the eyes of the remainder of humanity. He also informs them that the power of the Colossi would no longer exist following his death. Arin then temporarily erases their memories to ensure his plan will succeed.

As the Recon Legion and Warriors begin working to try and disable Arin, many of the previous Ennead Colossi begin spawning out of the back of the Origin Core due to the influence of Imera; Pixa, Rynor and Anya destroy many of them but are eventually overwhelmed. However, some of the previous Ennead Colossi fight back against the others, buying the Recon Legion and Warriors time to get away; during this, Jaren travels to the head of the Origin Core and detonates the explosives wrapped around its neck. This completely severs the head off the Coloss and the Source of all living matter , in the form of a strange shining centipede, emerges from the neck trying to reconnect with the head, only for the Aegis Coloss to dive towards it and wrestle it away, as Alren transforms into the Cataclysm Coloss, destroying Arin's Coloss in the process.

Using his severed titan head Arin is able to create a new Origin Core form in the likeness of the Cataclysm Coloss. He then engages in combat with Alren's Cataclysm Coloss after using the Source of all living matter to turn all the Marked Lineage that don't possess one of the Ennead Colossi, into Pure Colossi.

After Arin's death, the Origin Core ceases to exist together with all Colossi.