Pixa Fend ( ピーク・フィンガー Pīku Fingā ) is an Eldian who served as one of Dominion of Marn 's Warriors and possessed the power of the Burden Coloss .

Pixa is a short young woman with long, disheveled shoulder-length black hair, a Greek nose and relaxed downturned gray eyes. She wears a white blouse, a long light trench coat, and skirt which goes down to her ankles as well as black lace-up boots. She also wears an Eldian armband on her left arm, as required of all Vestari under the authority of Dominion of Marn .

During her infiltration of Paradis, she would steal a Recon Legion uniform, disguising herself as a member of the Jaegerists with a white armband to denote her status as such. In addition, she would wear her hair in a ponytail.

In her younger years, Pixa wore her hair in a ponytail.

In her Coloss form, Pixa was 4m tall while on all fours and walked on all four limbs in a quadrupedal fashion. Her torso was long and flat, allowing for materials to be easily packed onto her back. Her face was elongated, bearing full lips and a large nose with a tiny forehead and a large mouth. It had short, black hair and had no distinct female features, and its long face allows for custom armor, jaws, and war mechanisms to be crafted and strapped to it.

Pixa is shown to be somewhat sweet and kind, consistently shown to care about her fellow Warriors and the Warrior candidates. She is incredibly intelligent, able to quickly deduce a situation. When the Warriors were discussing the prospect of using the Tybur family to assist in their operations, Pixa was able to quickly figure things out, and Zair Kael implies this happens quite often. However, Pixa is usually shown to be quite eccentric and easy going. During the train ride to Liberio , Pixa gladly gave Colvin Gryss a drink when he asked for one, which led to him getting drunk and leading the other Eldian soldiers in a chant in favor of Gara Feld . As a result of spending a long time in her Coloss form, Pixa has shown the habit of crawling around on all-fours in private, stating that it feels more natural, and even curling up on a sofa like a cat.

She has been showing loyalty towards Dominion of Marn since her childhood, fighting well for the country's interest, but actually wishing to have her people released from the persecution they face every day. She was also very concerned about the future of the Eldian race as a whole, due to recognizing that the world wanted them gone and feared that they would not be of use anymore with the growing increase of technological advancements. Furthermore, her main reason for becoming a Warrior was to get her ill father money for his treatment. She did not display much grudge towards the inhabitants of Isle of Vestara and criticized her superiors' strategy.

Pixa grew up in the Liberio Internment Zone and lost her mother early on in childhood; seeing that her father had gotten sick and would not survive long without proper medical care, Pixa joined the Warrior program as soon as she was eligible. After performing well enough to be selected to inherit one of the Marleyan Colossi, Pixa was able to secure her father the treatment he needed. Despite this, Pixa recognized that her father now had a sadness in his eyes after learning that she would only live for thirteen more years due to the Curse of Imera . Wanting to show her father that Eldia had a bright future ahead, she decided to try any way possible to free the Vestari in Liberio and Dominion of Marn before the end of her thirteen years.

After Pixa inherited the powers of the Burden Coloss , she was kept in Dominion of Marn along with Zair Kael as a deterrent to enemy nations while the other Warriors ( Rynor Feld , Anya Levar , Bertholdt Hoover , and Marcel Galliard ) are sent to take part in the Isle of Vestara Operation in the year 845 .

Five years into the mission to reclaim the Origin Core , Pixa journeys to Isle of Vestara with Zair Kael and a contingent of Marleyan soldiers, using her Burden Coloss to carry supplies for them. She is present as Zair and the soldiers transform the inhabitants of a small village into Colossi .

Pixa is one of the Warriors brought by Zair Kael to engage the Recon Legion in Shiganshina District in the year 850. During the night before the Scouts' arrival, Pixa keeps watch for their movement in the desolate regions of Outer Ring south of Trost District . Upon seeing the advancing soldiers, she returns to the ruins of Shiganshina and informs Zair, Rynor Feld , and Bertholdt Hoover of their approach.

Pixa remains with Zair's Primal Coloss , serving as a cargo mule of sorts for the Warriors' various supplies. Orwin Hale notices her presence and correctly deduces by the luggage on her back that she was not among the recently transformed Pure Colossi , and is instead an Intelligent Coloss functioning as the Warriors' scout. Bertholdt is kept hidden in a barrel atop Pixa's back as a plan B against the Recon Legion, and upon Rynor's defeat at the hands of the Scouts' Thunder Spears , Bertholdt is removed from her Coloss's back and thrown by the Primal Coloss into the city. Shortly afterward, Pixa fetches nearby boulders for the Primal Coloss to use against the Scouts.

The Scouts choose to engage in a suicidal charge against the Primal Coloss in order to buy time for Captain Kael to move in for a counterattack. As Zair decimates the Scouts, he is quickly defeated by Kael who catches him unaware. Before Zair can be captured by Kael, Pixa comes to his rescue and carries his dismembered human form away. Zair guides Pixa into Shiganshina to rescue Rynor and Bertholdt, only to find Bertholdt incapacitated and captured by Arin Kael . After seeing Kael atop the Wall, they decide to abandon Bertholdt. Searching elsewhere in the district, the Burden Coloss rescues Rynor from capture before climbing atop Outer Ring where the Warriors are safe.

Pixa is present at the battle of Fort Slava at the climax of the war between Dominion of Marn and the Mid-East Allied Forces . While Colvin Gryss suggests that she should engage in combat with the fort's defenses, Commander Magath denied the suggestion due to the presence of an anti-Coloss artillery which could kill any Coloss with a single 150mm round. Once the artillery is destroyed, Pixa enters the battlefield with her Burden Coloss fully armored and equipped with four manned machine guns and begins to assault the bunkers of the Mid-East Allied Forces alongside Porko Galen 's Razor Coloss .

After the battle, Pixa joins Galliard and Rynor Feld , recovering from his injuries received in the battle. As a result of spending two consecutive months in her Coloss form, Pixa has been forced to walk with a crutch. After finding Galliard harassing Rynor, Pixa suggests that Rynor visit the Warrior Candidates while she stays with Galliard. She tells Rynor to go find the Warrior candidates.

While the Eldian unit is returning to Liberio via train Pixa agrees to give Colvin Gryss alcohol, leading the soldiers to throw a party in Gara Feld's honor. As the Warriors depart the train, Galliard chastens Pixa for giving Colvin alcohol, but the two Warriors both congratulate Gara on her accomplishments. The unit returns to the Liberio Internment Zone, where Pixa reunites with her father.

The next day Pixa attends a private meeting with her fellow Warriors to discuss the prospects of returning to Paradis to reclaim the Origin Core . Zair suggests using the Tybur family to try to rile up the world's nations into uniting against Paradis, and Pixa notes that their words will carry weight with foreign nations due to their betrayal and defeat of the Fritz family .

Pixa is later seen at the Warrior headquarters, spotted by Galliard walking on all fours like her Coloss, as she believes it to be more natural. Galliard, irritated, tells her to walk on two feet like a normal human. The two attend a military meeting discussing the logistics of an assault on Isle of Vestara and join their fellow Warriors in watching the candidates train afterward.

Pixa attends Willy Tybur 's festival with Rynor, Galliard, and the candidates. After the festival, she and the other Warriors gather to watch Willy's play. After they are seated, a Marleyan soldier informs the Warriors that Magath wants to see them. Along the way, the soldier dismisses Zair, causing Pixa to become suspicious. She comments that the soldier feels familiar, but becomes distracted when she sees the Panzer Unit that operates the artillery her Burden Coloss carries in battle. The soldier leads Pixa and Galliard to an empty building, and she realizes that they have been led into a trap as the soldier cuts a nearby rope. It opens a trap door beneath her and Galliard.

Pixa and Galliard fall into a Warrior confinement area, fracturing their bones in the process. They observe the lack of space to transform, so decide to wait with the supplies provided. Galliard questions the identity and intentions of the soldier who trapped them. Pixa states that she is not sure, but she remembers the soldier from somewhere before. Later, the two begin to feel tremors from outside. Pixa deduces that the tremors are from Colossi fighting outside and that this would be the reason they were trapped. While discussing a means of escape, her Panzer Unit comes to the Warriors' rescue. She explains to Galliard that she took safety measures because of their suspicious escort. The soldiers let down a rope and help the Warriors climb out of the pit.

Pixa's unit informs them about the Vanguard Coloss 's sudden appearance, and how the Forge Coloss is currently engaging it in battle. Pixa orders her unit to prepare her Coloss's armor, and Galliard prepares to go and join the battle. Before he leaves, Pixa suggests that he observe the situation for a while so they can better understand the enemy attacking them. They are then shocked to see a group of soldiers fly over them using ODM gear . As the others stare in awe, Pixa recalls seeing the same technology during her brief time on Isle of Vestara.

Pixa has her Panzer Unit equip her Coloss with the heavy machine-gun armament. When she arrives at the battlefield, she and the Panzer Unit surprise the Recon Legion with an artillery barrage, killing several soldiers and saving Galliard from death. Pixa provides cover for Zair as two soldiers try to approach him with Thunder Spears but nearly gets killed by one, only for Galliard to save her. After thanking him, Pixa is told to watch out for the Ackermann lurking nearby. She tells Galliard that what they need to do is protect Zair. Pixa then sees the explosion caused by the transformation of the Cataclysm Coloss at the edge of the city, realizing that Bertholdt Hoover was killed and had his Coloss ability stolen by the enemy.

Galliard attempts to charge Arin and Pixa tries calling him back but to no avail. After Zair falls, Pixa and her Panzer Unit become the focus of the Scouts, and one of her gunners is shot in the head. She charges towards the soldier who killed him, but Jaren Kirel intercepts her and launches a Thunder Spear at Pixa, destroying her Coloss's head.

The rest of Pixa's gunners are killed by a barrage of Thunder Spears which also severely damages her Coloss. Pixa stumbles off the roof of the building and falls right in front of Falo Gryss , Gara Feld , and Magath.

Jaren fires another Thunder Spear to finish her off and Pixa releases a small burst of steam which knocks it off course. This gives Falo and Gara enough time to get Pixa away from the battle while Magath and his soldiers cover their escape. By the time they get Pixa to safety, both Falo and Gara observe that her injuries are far too severe for her Coloss Manifestation to catch up with the healing. As she is recovering, Pixa realizes that the soldier who had trapped her and Galliard was aboard the first survey ship sent to Paradis and presumed to have perished after it failed to report in; believing the soldier to be a follower of Zair, Pixa reports to Magath her suspicions.

After the battle, Pixa recovers in a room together with Rynor and Galliard.

The Warriors are summoned to an emergency meeting and Magath explains Pixa's theory that Zair has been planning his raid with a team of co-conspirators from inside the Marleyan Military. Magath then tells the others they will wait for the Global Alliance to assemble before Rynor pushes for them to launch an immediate surprise attack against Isle of Vestara.

Pixa is sent ahead of the other Dominion of Marn forces to Isle of Vestara. As she reads a newspaper, she overhears a few citizens bitterly comment about the Scouts' recent actions.

Pixa infiltrates Shiganshina's military headquarters and ambushes Arin Kael while he is visiting Gara Feld's prison cell to convince her to cooperate. Stabbing an accompanying guard in the throat, she holds Arin at gunpoint and orders Gara to remain quiet. Threatening to kill Arin if he does not comply, Pixa ultimately backs down due to her mission of taking Arin in alive. After telling Arin that she wishes to free the Vestari just like him, Gara immediately accuses her of being a traitor like Zair.

Pixa tells Gara that, despite the heads of the military telling them otherwise, the Warriors and their families are not honorary Marleyans and will always be seen as lower class citizens; when Gara protests, Pixa reminds her that with the advancements in technology, Dominion of Marn will no longer rely solely on Colossi for warfare and all the Vestari (honorary or not) will be killed due to not being needed anymore. Arin asks her to prove herself and Pixa volunteers to show him where the other infiltrators are located.

After being handcuffed to Gara and taken to the roof, Pixa asks Arin if this means they are on the same side; Arin merely responds that Pixa should not try anything, due to potentially killing Gara if she tries to transform. They meet Yelena at the roof; Pixa recalls her treachery in Liberio, mentioning that Yelena looked nice with the fake goatee.

When pressured to reveal her comrades, Pixa grips Gara's hand and smiles at her; she then turns and points at Arin. Just then, Galliard's Razor Coloss bursts through and takes Arin and the Jaegerists by surprise. As this happens, Pixa grabs Gara and dives out of the way. As the Razor Coloss shields them from the blast of Arin transforming, Pixa tells Gara that while she does want to free the Vestari, she trusts her comrades to help with the liberation efforts.

On Pixa's order Galliard's Coloss cuts off her arm, allowing her to transform into her Burden Coloss and escape with Gara. The two meet up with Magath and his soldiers, and Pixa informs them of the number of Paradis's forces and that Zair has not yet arrived in the district. Pixa and Magath are puzzled by the fact that Arin has not yet activated the Founder, but Gara's revelation that Zair stated that Paradis has now a Coloss of royal blood leads them to theorize that Zair is that Coloss and that Arin needs to be in contact with him to activate the Founder.

Outfitted with an anti-Coloss artillery cannon, Pixa declares that they cannot allow Arin and Zair to come into contact with each other and begins to climb Outer Ring with Magath. Upon reaching the top of the wall, Magath mans the cannon and shoots Arin's Coloss in the head, temporarily disabling him. They fire another shot at Arin to incapacitate him further, but before they can fire any more they are interrupted by Zair's arrival.

After Zair annihilates the Marleyan airships, he takes aim at Pixa and she is barely able to avoid a barrage of stones. Clinging to the side of the Wall, she advises Magath to not fight Zair head-on but he refuses. Just then, a small group of Jaegerists arrive and begins to target them, forcing Pixa to retreat.

To trick her pursuers, Pixa exits her Coloss form and hides in the steam of her Coloss's decaying body, making it look as though she has been killed. The Jaegerists are then fired upon by Marleyan soldiers from the Burden Coloss's carcass while Magath subtly angles the artillery to get a clear shot at Zair. Afterwards, Magath lands a direct hit on Zair's Primal Coloss, knocking him off the Wall.

Pixa transforms once again and the artillery cannon is reattached to her Coloss form. As Magath fires another shot into the head of Arin's Coloss, both him and Pixa come under attack from the Jaegerists. They manage to fend off their attackers and resume firing upon Arin and Zair. However, the artillery cannon is then destroyed by Alren Vos and Mira Acken.

With no artillery to continue shooting at Arin and Zair's Coloss forms, Pixa is forced to engage her two assailants in melee. However, the fight is interrupted when Arin makes contact with Zair to start the World Fracture and Outer Ring begins to crumble underneath the combatants. Like all Marked Lineage, Pixa is then able to suddenly hear Arin's voice and his declaration to protect the people of Isle of Vestara.

Pixa and Magath retreat from Shiganshina and observe Dominion of Marn's airships leaving the island. As Pixa and Magath discuss what to do next, they are caught off guard by an approaching soldier . Pixa prepares to attack, but the soldier insists that they and their companion are harmless.

Pixa and Magath agree to join forces with Hanna and Kael in order to stop Arin. The group contacts Jaren Kirel and Mira and coordinate a plan for Pixa to rescue them along with Onyankopon and Yelena. Using her Coloss form, Pixa abducts Jaren, Onyankopon and Yelena and take them back to Hanna, Kael and Magath.

That night, as the combined forces of Dominion of Marn and Paradis are eating together, Magath attempts to ask Yelena where Arin intends to attack first. The Scouts try to remind her that her homeland, which she joined the Volunteers to save from Dominion of Marn, will be destroyed by Arin and Pixa shocks them all by revealing that she has discovered that Yelena is, in fact, Marleyan.

The following day, Pixa is sent to scout Paradis's docks to see if it will be safe for the group to follow Arin. Pixa returns from her mission to reveal that the Jaegerists have occupied the docks.

While her allies engage the Jaegerists, Pixa uses her Coloss form to transport the members of their group who are unable to fight. Pixa tries to advise Falo against joining the battle, but the youth chooses to ignore her. Pixa leaves the noncombatants on a boat in the harbor and engages the Jaegerists herself. She is joined by Falo, and the two quickly wipe out the remaining Jaegerists.

As the group prepares to leave, Falo begins losing control of his Coloss form and Pixa attempts to talk him down. Talking proves futile and Falo attacks Pixa, forcing her to subdue him while Magath cuts him out of his Coloss. The ordeal leaves Pixa badly injured and she has to be carried onto the boat by Hanna. As they escape from the harbor, a grieving Pixa embraces Gara as they witness general Magath sacrifice himself by blowing up a Marleyan cruiser on the dock.

After arriving in Odiha, Pixa attempts to comfort Falo after informing him of Magath's death and Liberio's destruction. Afterwards, hearing that Kael is planning to interrogate Yelena, Pixa volunteers to join. After getting Yelena to reveal Arin's next destination, Pixa informs Kiyomi that she intends to lock Gara and Falo in their room on the ship so that they cannot board the flying boat. Kiyomi agrees to watch over the children in her stead.

After saying goodbye to Anya, who intends to stay behind, Pixa and Rynor join the Scouts. Hanna gives them the opportunity to stay behind, but the two insist that they are continuing until the end. Preparations for departure are interrupted by Floch, who damages the boat's fuel tank, necessitating time for repairs to be done. As Arin's Colossi arrive in Odiha, Hanna stays behind to hold them off while Pixa and the others board the boat and depart.

As the flying boat reaches Arin it comes under fire from the Primal Coloss. As the rest of the group jump from the boat, Pixa grabs the explosives and drags them out of the boat with her. Transforming midair, Pixa transports the explosives in her Coloss's mouth while her comrades engage the Primal Coloss. They make quick work of the Beast, but Zair is not found in its nape. Pixa and the group retreat to give Alren room to transform and uncover Zair's location with the blast, but he is overtaken by an army of Colossi which begins generating atop Arin's Coloss. Kael devises a plan to save him, but Pixa reveals that the Colossi they are facing are former inheritors of the Ennead Colossi. Realizing that Arin can generate an infinite number of Colossi, Pixa tries to rush to his nape on her own and use the explosives to kill him. She manages to set the explosives around his nape, but before she can set them off, her Coloss gets impaled by Lara Tybur 's Forge Coloss .

Exiting her Coloss, Pixa quickly transforms again and kills the Forge Coloss. She uses her Coloss to kill nearby Colossi attacking Jaren, before ejecting from her Coloss as it is torn apart. Transforming once more in midair, Pixa explains to Jaren that the Burden Coloss's endurance effectively allows her to transform as many times as she wants, essentially allowing her endless opportunities to fight the Colossi spawning around them. Jaren attempts to reach the explosives Pixa left at Arin's nape but is cut off by more Colossi, and Pixa sullenly admits that even her abilities are not enough to clear a path to the explosives.

Pixa's regeneration abilities reach their limit and leave her unable to heal her injuries, requiring Jaren to return and save her. Jaren attempts to retreat to Rynor with her, but the two find that Rynor himself has been overwhelmed. Pixa and Jaren are nearly killed, but they are saved by the intervention of Porko and Marcel Galliard's Jaw Colossi. Pixa transforms again and joins her resurrected comrades in holding off the remaining hostile Colossi while Jaren finally reaches Arin's nape and destroys it. Falo's flying Razor Coloss arrives to retrieve the group and Pixa convinces Jaren to leave Rynor behind to ensure Arin does not regenerate before Alren transforms.

The group returns to Fort Salta, where Pixa is able to reunite with her father. Their reunion is short-lived, however, when it is revealed that Arin and the source of all living matter both survived Alren's transformation. The source begins emitting smoke at the base of Fort Salta and Pixa is horrified to learn from Kael that the smoke is going to turn the Vestari present into pure Colossi.

Grief-stricken, Pixa joins Mira and Kael aboard Falo as her father and companions are transformed. Pixa is given the task of helping Rynor prevent the source from returning to Arin while Mira and Kael engage Arin directly with Alren. She attacks the source directly, but is quickly overwhelmed by the army of pure Colossi along with Rynor and Anya.

Following Arin's death, the Coloss Manifestation is eliminated from the world and all of the Vestari return to their human forms. As her Vestari all begin to recover memories of Arin which he temporarily erased, Pixa jokingly laments that she would have liked to speak with him as well. As the Vestari regroup, the surviving Marleyan soldiers from Salta come out to confront them. The Marleyans threaten to kill them if they cannot prove that they are no longer Colossi, and only Alren is able to talk them down.

In the three years following Arin's death, the survivors of the "Battle of Heaven and Earth" at Fort Salta are made peace ambassadors between the remnants of the outside world and Paradis. As the ambassadors sail to Paradis to begin peace talks in the year 857, Anya points out that the odds of them successfully negotiating with Paradis are low. Alren, however, is confident that the sight of the Warriors and the Recon Legion, former enemies, working together will be enough to get the Vestari of Paradis to listen.

Pixa was praised for her intellect by her fellow Warriors and Marleyan military . She has proved to be able to deduce consequences according to the facts that were presented to her and was regarded as someone who can take the appropriate decisions according to the situation. This ability of hers is what motivated the Marleyan military to give her the Burden Coloss .

Pixa had the power to transform herself into a Coloss known as the Burden Coloss ( 車力の巨人 Shariki no Kyojin ).