Porko Galen ( ポルコ・ガリアード Poruko Gariādo ) was an Eldian and the younger brother of Marcel Galliard . He was one of Dominion of Marn 's Warriors and possessed the ability to transform into the Razor Coloss .

Galliard was a young man of average height. He had hazel eyes, and his blond hair was kept in an undercut style which was pushed back. He wore combat trousers and a short coat. He also wore the Eldian armband on his left arm, as required of all Vestari under the authority of Dominion of Marn. While undercover on Isle of Vestara, Galliard stole a Recon Legion uniform to disguise himself as part of the Jaegerists .

Galliard's Coloss , the Razor Coloss , possessed deep-set eyes with a heavy brow and long blond hair. While his chin sported a long beard, the rest of his face was hairless with a cog-like arrangement of hardened skin in place of lips. His Coloss also sported an armored face, fingers, and knuckles. His body was muscular and well-toned, and he usually employed all four limbs when moving.

Galliard appears to be a brave figure, using his Coloss to leap in the way of bullets and protect his fellow Vestari Gara and Falo , and Warriors. It is, however, quite possible that Galliard was not acting on bravery and was instead certain of his ability to withstand gunfire with the absence of the armored train , indicating that he has fought on battlefields before. As a dedicated soldier, he charges right into the heat of battle, attacking and crushing enemy soldiers for his people.

He also has somewhat of a bitter personality particularly towards Rynor Feld, and treats him condescendingly. Galliard seems to be prone to using passive-aggressive language, although it is likely that much of this animosity is exclusive to Rynor. He is, or at least was, prone to violence, as seen when he punched Rynor after they had an argument. He also appears to be extremely arrogant in his own power, trusting that his Coloss powers are more than enough to keep him alive against the experienced Recon Legion and was visibly shocked when they are able to essentially fight him to a standstill.

It should be noted that despite his rude attitude, Galliard cares very deeply for his fellow Warriors. He is shown to be a nice person, being very friendly towards fellow Warriors and Warrior candidates, and has no difficulty treating Rynor's cousin Gara with respect. Although he is cold and unwelcoming to the older Warriors' friendly advances, he shows great panic and anger when Pixa and Zair are defeated during battle with the Scouts. The revelation that Bertholdt Hoover was devoured while on Paradis angers him enough to begin acting rashly in battle and put himself in danger as a result.

Some years before the Isle of Vestara Operation , Galliard was a leading candidate to inherit the Aegis Coloss . He participated in the selection process along other Eldian children. After reuniting with the other six possible candidates and receiving the information about the future offensive against Isle of Vestara, Galliard scolded Rynor Feld as he considered him the only one without a special talent, being only fueled by his love towards Dominion of Marn and his adulating towards their superiors.

After Rynor accused him of being an Eldian spy, Galliard punched him and was stopped by his brother before continuing to their destination; even though Marcel had convinced him to stop the assault, Galliard continued to mock Rynor.

It was eventually decided in the year 843 that Rynor would inherit the power of the Aegis Coloss; Galliard's brother Marcel was additionally chosen to inherit the power of the Razor Coloss. Porko confronted Rynor about the matter, enraged that he was chosen over him only to be stopped by his brother because what he was doing was an act of insubordination. Porko then bowed down to Rynor as an apology. When the Warriors departed for Isle of Vestara, Galliard remained behind on the continental mainland.

After Imera , a former Feral Coloss who devoured Marcel on Isle of Vestara, surrenders herself to Dominion of Marn to return the Jaw Coloss Manifestation she inadvertently stole, Galliard is chosen to consume her and inherit the power. He inherits Imera's memories and understands her history and motives, but he sees nothing from the memories of his brother.

Four years after the Warriors ' return from Paradis, Galliard is present at the battle of Fort Slava . Under orders from the Warriors' Marleyan superior Commander Magath , he and Pixa are unauthorized to engage in combat with the Mid-East Allied Forces at the fort due to the presence of the highly dangerous Anti-Coloss Artillery . However, once Gara succeeds in destroying the armored train holding the artillery, Galliard joins the fight and shields her and Falo from machine gun fire before charging forward and decimating the enemies' defenses.

After clearing their defenses Galliard continues pushing forward, killing several soldiers inside the trenches and using his powerful jaw to break the railways. After the Aegis Coloss is deployed inside the fortress, Galliard destroys several anti-Coloss artillery platforms to protect him before retiring and leaving the remaining soldiers to the Aegis Coloss and the Primal Coloss .

After the battle, Galliard watches over Rynor as he recovers from his injuries following the battle of Fort Slava. When Rynor awakens, he thanks Galliard for saving him in Fort Slava, but Galliard coldly tells him that he only wanted to keep Dominion of Marn from losing the Aegis Coloss. Galliard then explains that he did not inherit his brother's memories but he did inherit Imera's memories and harshly berates Rynor for needing to be saved by his comrades so often, including Marcel whose death Galliard holds Rynor accountable for. Rynor eventually leaves after Pixa joins them, and Galliard stays behind with Pixa.

Galliard later joins the rest of the Marleyan military on the train returning to their homeland, seated among the other Warriors. When the train arrives at Liberio Galliard is forced to help Warrior candidate Colvin Gryss , hungover from a party he threw in Gara's honor, off the train. Galliard chastises Pixa for agreeing to let Colvin drink, but soon turns his attention to Gara and congratulates her for her accomplishments at Slava. The Eldian soldiers return to the Liberio Internment Zone, where Galliard reunites with his parents.

The next day Galliard attends a private meeting with the other Warriors to discuss returning to Isle of Vestara to retake the Origin Core . Once the two arrive, Zair informs them of his plan to stabilize Dominion of Marn's steadily waning power by recommencing the Isle of Vestara Operation to reclaim the Origin Core. Galliard is unhappy at the news that the noble Tybur family will be acting as the Warriors' spokespersons during the affair, but is convinced by Rynor and Zair to agree to the plan.

Galliard attends a military meeting figuring out the logistics of an invasion of Isle of Vestara. On his way he meets up with Pixa, who is trying to walk on all fours to emulate her Burden Coloss. After the meeting ends, he joins his Warrior colleagues outside on a balcony, and sarcastically compliments the senior officers' intellect.

On the day of Willy Tybur 's festival in Liberio, Galliard attends the event with Rynor, Pixa, and the Warrior candidates. Later that night he and the other Warriors gather to attend Willy's play.

After taking their seat, a Dominion of Marn soldier informs the Warriors that Magath wants to speak with them. After sending Zair off, the soldier leads Galliard and Pixa to an empty room. Confused, Galliard asks where Magath is, only for the soldier to cut a nearby rope, opening a trap door underneath the two.

Galliard and Pixa fall onto a bed of straw, fracturing their bones in the process. Pixa identifies the hole as an old-fashioned Warrior confinement area, and they note the lack of space to transform. Galliard wonders about the soldier's plan and Pixa answers that she is not sure, but recognizes the soldier from somewhere.

The captive Warriors begin to feel tremors inside the confinement trap. This allows Pixa to deduce that Colossi are battling outside, giving reason to why they were captured. As Galliard begins questioning how to escape, the Panzer Unit comes to their rescue. Pixa explains that she had taken security measures because of the suspicious feeling she had gotten from their supposed escort. The unit then sends down a rope, which the Warriors use to climb up and out of the pitfall. The rescuers inform them about the Vanguard Coloss's sudden appearance, and how the Forge Coloss is currently engaging it in battle.

Whilst Pixa briefs her troops, Galliard prepares to go and join the fray, though she asks him to stop and observe the situation for a while. Galliard is then shocked to see a group of soldiers dart over them using Anti-Personnel omni-directional mobility gear , having never seen it used before.

After transforming into his Razor Coloss, Galliard ambushes Arin Kael's Vanguard Coloss from behind and leaps onto its nape. Galliard tries to bite into the Coloss's nape, but his jaw is sliced open before he can. The Vanguard Coloss then smashes Galliard on a building behind them, and as he sees the soldier maneuvering around, he realizes that it is an Ackermann.

Pixa's Burden Coloss then arrives in time with the Panzer Unit, killing several enemy soldiers with its machine guns, much to Galliard's surprise. As the Primal Coloss also joins the battlefield, Galliard and Pixa stand by its side, facing the rest of the Scouts.

After killing an enemy soldier Galliard partially emerges from his Coloss and warns Pixa of the Ackermann, as they had lost sight of him. He listens as Pixa assesses the situation, and he states if they could get the Origin Core, the enemy would lose the ace up their sleeves.

They are interrupted by a sudden explosion at the harbor. Pixa recognizes it as the Cataclysm Coloss's transformation and realizes Bertholdt was killed and had his Coloss ability taken by the enemy. Angered by this, Galliard charges towards Arin, remarking that the enemy's plans would be ruined if he gets rid of him.

Galliard is stunned to see Zair 's Coloss get taken down by Kael and then sees that the Burden Coloss is disabled as well. Fearing that both have been killed, this drives him into a rage once more and once again targets Arin. Growing out the claws on his Coloss form, Galliard avoids another attack by Mira and lunges at the Vanguard Coloss, only to get punched in the face. Despite this, Galliard hangs on and bites down on the hardened fist made by Arin. He then rakes the face of the Vanguard Coloss with numerous strikes, one getting deflected by the crystal surrounding the younger sister of Willy. Galliard momentarily retreats back to the husk of the Forge Coloss.

Noticing an incoming airship, Galliard realizes that is how the Recon Legion plan to retreat. He changes targets but fails to see Mira, who cripples his Coloss by slicing through his legs and cutting off his right foot. This sends Galliard crashing down in front of Arin; the latter subdues the Razor Coloss by tearing off both its arms and forces the crystal into its mouth. Galliard realizes the Vanguard Coloss wishes to use him to steal the Forge Coloss but is unable to stop it; he is forced by Arin to bite down and break through the hardened crystal, killing Lara Tybur and allowing Arin to obtain her Coloss powers.

He is then slammed to the ground and left unconscious by Arin, who tries to bite his nape and eat him as well. Seeing this, Gara and Falo yell for Rynor to save him, eventually managing to awaken him. The Aegis Coloss emerges from the rubble and attacks Arin, preventing Galliard from being eaten.

Some time after the battle finishes, Galliard sits with a recovered Pixa, drinking alcohol when Rynor wakes up. Galliard asks him if he had a nightmare and gives him a bottle.

Galliard later takes part in an emergency meeting with Magath and the other Warriors. He is shocked to hear that Zair is most likely working with Paradis and deceived all of Dominion of Marn.

As part of the retaliation against Paradis, Galliard and Pixa are discreetly sent to Paradis, where they infiltrate the military headquarters where Arin Kael is staying. Once Pixa has brought Arin to the roof of the building, Galliard transforms into his Razor Coloss form and ambushes Arin, but is unable to prevent Arin from transforming. As Arin transforms, Galliard uses the Razor Coloss to shield Pixa and Gara from the resulting blast. On Pixa's orders, Galliard cuts off her arm and uses his own Coloss to distract Arin as she transforms. Once Pixa has fled with Gara, Galliard falls back to a safe distance himself.

As Rynor engages Arin in his Aegis Coloss form, Galliard tries to attack Arin from behind, determined to get revenge for being made an accomplice in the Forge Coloss's murder. He avoids an initial attack from Arin, but he and Rynor are both skewered and left immobile when Arin begins creating hardened structures from the ground. Galliard manages to free himself from the spike he is skewered on and tries to attack Arin again but is forced to retreat as Arin creates more spikes. Galliard goes in for an attack again as Rynor grapples with Arin, but Arin easily smacks him out of the air, knocking him into a row of nearby buildings. Still out of combat, he witnesses the arrival of Zair to the battlefield but manages to recover. He tries to attack Arin again but is caught in the middle of a barrage of stones thrown from the Primal Coloss, taking Galliard down once again.

Seeing Arin try to approach Zair's Primal Coloss, Galliard grabs the Vanguard Coloss and bites down on its leg, only to be struck repeatedly in the nape by the Vanguard Coloss's hardened fists and left severely wounded. As Rynor fights Arin, he yells at Galliard to wake up and assist him. When he reaches to grab Galliard, the latter receives the memory of Marcel telling Rynor that he sabotaged his brother in order to save him from becoming a Warrior, to Galliard's shock and dismay.

Realizing that he will not be able to heal all his wounds, Galliard exits his Coloss. Stumbling towards Rynor and a newly transformed Falo Gryss, he reveals to Rynor that he has seen Marcel's memories and is now aware of Marcel's role in him not being selected as the Aegis Coloss eleven years prior. Proclaiming that he will always be a better Warrior than Rynor, Galliard allows himself to be devoured by Falo and transfers his power to the young Warrior candidate.

Galliard is one of the many Coloss inheritors whose Coloss is created by Imera Fritz to defend Arin while he is attempting to Rumble the world. His Coloss attacks Rynor, using its claws to slash his Coloss's face until Conny Springer blows it away with a Thunder Spear. In the middle of the fighting Galliard and a handful of other inheritors are reawakened in the Path world by Zair. Zair asks Galliard and the other inheritors to lend their strength to him and his allies.

Taking control of his Coloss, Galliard helps fend off the myriad Colossi that are attempting to defend Arin. He and Marcel save Jaren Kirel and Pixa from being killed and continue to fight until Arin's nape is destroyed.

As an Eldian Warrior , Galliard has undergone advanced military training in order to prepare him to use the Coloss Manifestation. He was in very good shape and his overall abilities were strong enough to make him an Eldian Warrior.

Galliard had the ability to transform into a 5 meter Coloss known as the Razor Coloss ( 顎の巨人 Agito no Kyojin ).