This article is about one of the Ennead Colossi . For the 26th episode of the Citadel of the Colossi anime, see Primal Coloss (Episode) .

The Primal Coloss ( 獣の巨人 Kemono no Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi . Typically, it was slightly larger than most Colossi and took on an animal-like appearance.

Unlike the majority of other Colossi , which retained a largely "human" appearance, the Primal Coloss exhibited animal-like traits, which greatly varied depending on its holders: some of the various animal appearances shown from prior holders of the Primal Coloss have included monkeys, birds, crocodiles, elk, bulls, wolves, snakes, rabbits, dinosaurs, okapis, goats, horses, lions, hippopotamuses, turtles and elephants. Zair Kael 's Primal Coloss looked like an ape and Tom Xaver 's contained traits found in bighorn sheep, while Falo Gryss testifies that there once existed a Primal Coloss with wings. Furthermore, Zair's spinal fluid, which carried the power of the Primal Coloss, was used to transform Falo into a Coloss and evidently gave his Razor Coloss falcon-like characteristics similar to those of a Primal Coloss.

Zair Kael's ape-like Primal Coloss possessed a devastating ability to throw objects with great accuracy and immense destructive capability. This was notably used during the battle of Shiganshina District to wipe out most of the Recon Legion with crushed rocks. On a previous instance, Zair's Primal Coloss used its pitching skills to throw a horse at Miche Zacharius with great precision from a far distance away. Towards the end of the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War , it annihilated the entire naval fleet of the Mid-East Allied Forces stationed at Fort Slava .

During the brief battle with Kael, Zair attempted to harden his Primal Coloss's nape. However, Kael cut the Primal Coloss down before it could harden. The Primal Coloss would later display the ability to harden its nape during their rematch. However, it was not strong enough to withstand the damage from several Thunder Spears .

With his royal blood, one of the most perilous attributes of Zair's Primal Coloss was the ability to turn Marked Lineage into Colossi . If a person was given Zair's spinal fluid, Zair would then be able to transform him/her with a roar, much like the scream-based abilities of the Origin Core and the Mimic Coloss . This ability could be used to devastating effect on the unsuspecting, such as the initiation of the Middle Ring invasion after the residents of Ragako were turned into Colossi with the Primal Coloss's power, as well as the time when the Marleyan military made use of this power to drop Colossi onto Fort Slava in an airstrike. According to Nicolo , it was a common tactic for Dominion of Marn to cause Pure Colossi to overrun an area by sneaking in a few hundred specially prepared Vestari and having Zair use this power to transform them. However, there was a limited range to his scream.

Zair's Primal Coloss was able to exercise some control over Pure Colossi that he created through his screams. Zair's Primal Coloss was able to direct the actions of Pure Colossi and could command them to move, resist the urge to eat humans, and stay in place. Colossi under Zair's control were even able to function using only moonlight without falling into fatigue. However, this ability was evidently imperfect; some Colossi could somewhat ignore Zair's Primal Coloss's orders.

The Primal Coloss, like all the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . In the 1,700 years following her death, the Primal Coloss was held in the possession of one or several of the warring Eldian houses subservient to the Origin Core . After these seventeen centuries when Karl Fritz , the 145th king of the Fritz family , abandoned the conflicts of Eldia and relocated to Isle of Vestara , the Primal Coloss was taken by the nation of Dominion of Marn during the Great Coloss War .

In 829 , Tom Xaver inherited the Primal Coloss in order to research the Coloss's memories. During his tenure, the Primal Coloss would often stay in Dominion of Marn, as Tom claimed he was not too useful in war.

After 13 years, Zair Kael would inherit the power of the Primal Coloss from Tom Xaver. Over a year later, after the other Warriors had inherited their Colossi, Zair made use of his Coloss form in a war between Dominion of Marn and an enemy nation, using his Primal Coloss to slaughter retreating soldiers in the battle.

When the time came for the Isle of Vestara Operation , Zair's Primal Coloss stayed behind in Dominion of Marn as deterrence against enemy forces.

When Colossi mysteriously appear within Middle Ring the Primal Coloss is among them and is encountered by Miche Zacharius , who instantly notes the strangeness of its characteristics, mistaking the Coloss for a regular Abnormal . As Miche's horse races back to him, the Primal Coloss unexpectedly grabs it. After noticing Miche, the Primal Coloss launches the horse at him to prevent his escape and knock him off the roof he was on. After Miche falls to the mouth of a Coloss , the Primal Coloss orders the other Colossi to withhold eating him so that it can question Miche about the omni-directional mobility gear .

However, a Coloss disobeys the Beast and it crushes its head to release Miche. The Primal Coloss then proceeds to interrogate Miche, but as he neglects to respond out of shock, it theorizes that they do in fact speak the same language, but Miche is simply too frightened. After stealing the equipment, it allows the surrounding Colossi to devour Miche. Miche screams in horror and pain while the Primal Coloss is amused to see that he could in fact talk. It then leaves the grounds contemplating the ODM gear.

The Primal Coloss is later seen again wandering around outside Utgard Castle where several members of the Recon Legion are trapped by Colossi, despite Colossi usually being inactive at night. It then climbs up Middle Ring and watches the Colossi surrounding the tower from a distance. After the Scouts kill most of the larger Colossi, the Primal Coloss begins throwing large stones at the tower, killing Lynne and Henning along with their remaining horses. Shortly afterward, twice as many Colossi begin to advance on the tower while the Primal Coloss roars at them from atop Middle Ring. Nanaba notices the unusually strategic method in their attacks, indicating that the Primal Coloss is controlling the other Colossi' actions. As the Colossi swarm Utgard, the Primal Coloss descends the other side of Middle Ring.

The next day, while Rynor and Bertholdt are holding Arin Kael and Imera captive, Imera notes how stunned the two had appeared when they first saw the Primal Coloss at Utgard as if they knew what it was. She also theorizes that it is a key factor in their return to their hometown . Shortly afterward, the Primal Coloss stops in Shiganshina District , and its operator emerges from its nape, seemingly anticipating something to come.

While waiting in Shiganshina District, the Primal Coloss eventually meets up with the Warriors Bertholdt and Rynor. They try to convince him to work with them to free their comrade Anya Levar from captivity, but the Primal Coloss refuses. Conflict arises, and Rynor uses his Aegis Coloss to try to force the Primal Coloss's hand, however the Primal Coloss brutally overpowers him. As Bertholdt helps Rynor out of his Coloss body, the Primal Coloss's operator emerges from his Coloss, telling the two of them that Anya can wait until they secure the Central Nexus . He then reveals his plan to ambush the Recon Legion in Shiganshina with their help in order to capture Arin and the Central Nexus.

When the Recon Legion arrives in Shiganshina District as Zair had predicted, the Primal Coloss appears with a small army of Pure Colossi. It hefts a boulder and throws it in a perfect arc at the Wall, plugging the hole in the inner gate and preventing the Recon Legion from bringing their horses through. Afterward, Zair commands the smaller Colossi under his influence to attack the soldiers north of the Wall. Erwin orders Squad Kael to take down the Aegis Coloss, but he withholds Kael himself, whom he tasks with taking down the Primal Coloss.

The Scouts battle with the smaller Colossi for a short time, and upon hearing the signal roar from Rynor's Aegis Coloss within the district, Zair's Primal Coloss hurls Bertholdt Hoover into the city in a barrel that had been waiting on standby atop the Burden Coloss .

After a brief delay, Bertholdt transforms into his Cataclysm Coloss , and in the meantime Zair begins a new assault on the Scouts north of the district, using crushed boulders as projectiles and sending them at devastating speeds into the houses and structures to the north of Outer Ring. This strategy leaves the soldiers north of the Wall completely immobile, and Commander Orwin Hale joins them to formulate a do-or-die strategy against the Primal Coloss. In a last resort, the Scouts charge towards the Primal Coloss using signal flares in an attempt to hinder its vision while Captain Kael maneuvers his way towards the Primal Coloss, using the blockade of Colossi as a path towards it.

The Primal Coloss's bombardment strikes and kills all the charging soldiers, except for one . However, in Zair's distraction, Kael successfully ambushes the Primal Coloss, completely dismembering it with no time for Zair to plan a defense. Zair emerges from his ruined Primal Coloss at Kael's mercy, but is soon afterward rescued by the Burden Coloss.

Four years later, Zair uses the power of his Primal Coloss to transform a group of parachuting Eldian captives into Colossi during the battle of Fort Slava at the climax of the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War , creating a devastating airstrike. After Porko Galen destroys the anti-Coloss artillery , Rynor joins the combat on the ground and destroys the remaining anti-Coloss artillery on top of a wall posing a threat to Zair's Coloss, he transforms into the Beast and uses leftover artillery rounds as projectiles against the navy of the Mid-East Allied Forces stationed in the bay near to the fort. The fleet fires upon the Primal Coloss before it is destroyed, but Rynor's Aegis Coloss saves Zair from fatal injuries.

During the Recon Legion's assault on Liberio a month later, the Primal Coloss approaches the plaza and enters the battle, ordering both Porko and Pixa to annihilate the enemy. Throughout the battle, the Burden Coloss protects Zair from the Scouts, in particular Kael, and is in turn defended by the Razor Coloss .

The Primal Coloss provides the Warriors with artillery support, hurling crushed debris around the plaza, instantly stopping the battle and declaring that Arin Kael is not his enemy and that he wants to face Kael. He then turns his back which allows Kael to swiftly cut open his nape and detonate an explosive in his nape.

While much of the Marleyan military assumes Zair to be dead, he is in fact boarded onto the Recon Legion's airship . Hanna reveals that Zair and the Recon Legion are working together, signifying a change in allegiance of the Primal Coloss, and the airship moves out towards Isle of Vestara .

According to Zair's plan, Elira Rhos is supposed to inherit the Primal Coloss. Initially, the military wanted Elira to inherit Zair's Coloss immediately but her pregnancy has delayed the succession. Despite this, while watching over Zair in the Forest of Giant Trees , Kael begins making plans to have the Primal Coloss temporarily held by a captured Jaegerist until the pregnancy is completed.

In the forest, Zair uses the power of his scream to transform 30 nearby Recon Legion soldiers into Pure Colossi. This was possible as these soldiers, like many higher-ups in the military, had previously drunk alcohol that was mixed with his spinal fluid. Zair uses the opportunity to escape from the custody of the Regiment. Confident that Kael would not slaughter his own subordinates, Zair summons three of the newly created Colossi and plans to have the Colossi take him to the agreed upon meeting place with Arin.

Zair is stunned to see Kael appear in front of him and quickly transforms into the Primal Coloss. Tearing apart one of the Colossi, Zair scans the forest and throws the bloody Coloss pieces towards Kael and notices many tree branches falling towards him. Although he hardens his nape, the Primal Coloss is struck by several Thunder Spears that pierce through. Zair can barely react before Kael detonates them, blowing apart the Primal Coloss and critically injuring Zair.

Zair arrives in Shiganshina to find the district under siege from Dominion of Marn's forces and Arin on the verge of being eaten by Rynor. Climbing to the top of Outer Ring in his Coloss form, Zair launches a volley of rocks which knock Rynor off of Arin and commends his younger brother for standing against Dominion of Marn's forces, comforting him that he will now take care of the enemies.

After destroying many of the airships, the Primal Coloss then spots the Burden Coloss and shifts its attention to keep it at bay. Noticing the Vanguard Coloss is in the act of getting ambushed by both the Armored and Jaw Colossi, it continues its barrage and critically damages both. Just then, it gets shot through the shoulder by Theo Magath and the Primal Coloss falls off the Wall.

Once Zair reawakens, he declares his intention to transform those affected by his spinal fluid into Pure Colossi. After a short delay due to a plea from Colvin, the Primal Coloss screams nevertheless, before ordering the transformed Falo Gryss to attack Rynor. Soon after, the Primal Coloss is shot in the nape again. Seeing this as an opportunity to play dead, Zair exits his Coloss form and hides in its steam.

As the World Fracture reaches Fort Salta, Zair's Coloss emerges from the Origin Core to fight off the Dominion of Marn bombers trying to stop it; it is soon destroyed and dissipates.

After Arin's death, the Primal Coloss ceases to exist together with all Colossi.