The Razor Coloss ( 顎の巨人 Agito no Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi with a ferociously powerful set of jaws and claws that were able to tear through almost anything. Due to its small size, it was known to be one of the fastest out of the Ennead Colossi.

Those who held the power of the Razor Coloss demonstrated significant amounts of speed and agility in their Coloss form . They could even move fast enough to catch most of the other Ennead Colossi off guard. Though the Razor Coloss was relatively small and weak, its mobility excelled in terrain such as the Forest of Giant Trees .

As its name implies, the Razor Coloss possessed incredible biting and crushing strength in its jaws and claws which could be used with devastating efficiency against both Colossi and man-made structures. Its claws were strong enough to cause severe damage to armored opponents such as turrets and even the crystal shell created by the Forge Coloss . The force of its jaws was shown to be strong enough to chew through the hardened Coloss armor generated by Arin Kael as well as the aforementioned crystal shell surrounding the Forge Coloss, something not even the Vanguard Coloss was able to achieve. Its powers manifested in different ways among Colossi, with some like Imera only having hardened teeth while Falo, Porko and Marcel had hardened, armored masks, jaw plating and hardened fingers that could withstand gunfire.

Due to the influence of the Primal Coloss 's spinal fluid taken from Zair Kael , Falo's Razor Coloss was able to take on several characteristics found in birds.

Similar to a previous incarnation of the Primal Coloss, Falo's Razor Coloss was able to sprout wings and a tail which allowed it to take flight while carrying multiple people on its body.

The Razor Coloss, like all of the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . In the 1,700 years following her death, the Razor Coloss was held in the possession of one or several of the warring Eldian houses subservient to the Origin Core . After these seventeen centuries when Karl Fritz , the 145th king of the Fritz family , abandoned the conflicts of Eldia and relocated to Isle of Vestara , the Razor Coloss was taken by the nation of Dominion of Marn during the Great Coloss War .

Around the year 843 , Marcel Galliard was chosen to inherit the power of the Razor Coloss. He would later make use of his Coloss form during a war between Dominion of Marn and an enemy nation, using his Razor Coloss to destroy the enemy's artillery guns.

In the year 845, the nation of Dominion of Marn sent out Marcel Galliard , Rynor Feld , Bertholdt Hoover , and Anya Levar across the sea to Isle of Vestara as the start of the Isle of Vestara Operation . However, at some point before the attack on Shiganshina District , a Coloss approached Rynor and nearly had him in its grasp until Marcel moved him away to safety. Marcel was caught in Rynor's place, and he was eaten alive as his comrades escaped. The Coloss inherited Marcel's Jaw power and regained its human form: an Eldian girl named Imera , who had been wandering as a Coloss for around sixty years.

Choosing to start a new life for herself, Imera made her way into humanity's territory and began living as a thief in the interior territories of the Barrier Rings . At this time, she overheard the story of " Christa Lenz " from members of the Order of the Barrier Rings and her plans to join the 104th Cadet Corps . Desiring to meet her for political and personal reasons, Imera joined the Cadet Corps in the same year as Christa.

At some point during their training, Imera and Christa faced difficulties escorting a sick cadet to shelter in harsh winter conditions. Wanting to see Christa survive, she sent her off to the shelter alone and used the Razor Coloss to bring their fellow cadet to safety at the base of a cliff side. Christa wondered at how Imera could have possibly reached the shelter before her. Imera agreed to tell her secret to Christa under the condition that when the secret of her Coloss Manifestation was publicly known, Christa would go back to living under her true name.

During the Middle Ring invasion , Imera is among the recruits of the Recon Legion at Utgard Castle when it is overrun by Colossi commanded by the Primal Coloss .

When their commanding officers die confronting the Colossi, Imera speaks with Christa , reminding her of a promise they made to each other during their training days. Taking a knife from Conny , Imera slits her palm and transforms to fight the Colossi at the base of the castle.

In her Coloss form, Imera begins to slaughter the Colossi around Utgard with ease, using claws on her hands and feet to slash at napes as well as making use of her fanged teeth. After a short while, Imera's Coloss is outnumbered and overwhelmed and nearly breaks the structure of the tower. Rather than risking the castle's collapse, Imera allows for her Coloss to fall into the horde until Christa calls out to her, telling her that she should destroy the castle if that is what it takes to survive the Coloss horde.

Imera then starts tearing away at the tower, using bricks and stone to fend off the Colossi until the tower begins to collapse. Climbing the tower, Imera tells the other recruits to grab onto her Coloss, which protects the others from falling to their deaths.

When the tower is reduced to rubble, Imera continues to fight the Colossi, but she is soon outnumbered, and the horde eats away at her Coloss until the Recon Legion arrives to finish them all off. Imera is extracted from her Coloss, missing some limbs and with serious abdominal injuries, and Christa tells Imera her true name "Elira" before Imera falls unconscious.

The next time Imera uses her Coloss is after she agrees to help Rynor and Bertholdt in exchange for Elira's safety. While in a forest she transforms to face the Recon Legion, which has come to retrieve Arin , who was kidnapped by Rynor and Bertholdt.

Because Conny has seen her in her Coloss form before, he prevents the others from attacking her, giving Imera the time she needs to look around at the faces of those present. When she spots Elira, she opens her mouth wide and captures her inside.

Imera then turns around and swings from tree to tree, to escape. She meets up with Rynor and Bertholdt, who are waiting for her at the edge of the forest. On seeing her, Rynor transforms into the Aegis Coloss and begins running while Bertholdt grapples on to his shoulder with Arin. Imera jumps on his back, and he carries them all away.

During their escape, Commander Orwin Hale leads a horde of Colossi into Rynor to stop him and Imera is forced to defend Elira. In the chaos, they are separated from Rynor and Bertholdt, but they manage to kill a Coloss together. As the battle intensifies, Imera questions whether she is better off siding with the Warriors or the Scouts, but any way she looks at it, the chances inside the Barrier Rings are bleak.

She joins Elira, Sera , and Conny in fending off the surrounding Colossi when a newly freed Arin strikes a smiling Coloss with his bare hand, triggering something that everyone with the power of the Colossi can feel.

This causes all the mindless Colossi present to drop what they are doing in favor of devouring the one that had attacked Arin. As Arin runs away he screams and sends the Colossi after Rynor and Bertholdt. Imera now realizes why they were after Arin, and that with his power the people of the Barrier Rings may have a future.

The Scouts prepare to retreat during the confusion and Imera looks back to see Rynor and Bertholdt are about to be overwhelmed. She reaches out to Elira and caresses her hair before apologizing and turning to run back. Imera arrives in time to stop a Coloss from eating Bertholdt and joins them in their fight to survive.

During the two months afterward, Imera is sent to Dominion of Marn . At some point after or during the year 850 , Porko Galen is chosen to inherit the power of the Razor Coloss from Imera.

At the climax of the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War during the battle of Fort Slava , Galliard is present in the trenches dug by the Marleyan Warriors surrounding the fort. Cadet Colvin Gryss suggests making use of Galliard's Razor Coloss and Pixa 's Burden Coloss against the defenses of the Mid-East Allied Forces , but Commander Magath rejects the proposal due to the presence of anti-Coloss artillery patrolling the perimeter of the fortress. However, once cadet Gara Feld destroys the armored train carrying the artillery using explosives, Galliard is sent out onto the battlefield. His Coloss proves to be more than enough to defend against the turret-fire from the bunkers surrounding Fort Slava, and Galliard's Coloss makes quick work of Dominion of Marn's enemies.

Galliard's attack on the Mid-East defenses is met with support from the 800 Vestari and Pixa's Burden Coloss in full battle armor. Using the immense strength of his Coloss's jaws, Galliard rips the railways from the ground, ensuring a complete immobilization of the Allies' defenses.

Shortly afterward, Galliard retreats as Zair Kael begins a Coloss airstrike directly above the fortress, dropping dozens of Pure Colossi onto the Allies. When Rynor Feld joins the fight as the Aegis Coloss , Galliard assists him in destroying the remaining anti-Coloss artillery stationed within the ruined fortress.

Over a month later, the Razor Coloss returns during the Raid on Liberio when the Vanguard Coloss makes a sudden appearance and begins a massacre. The Razor Coloss swings onto the Vanguard Coloss's back, attempting to bite into the nape to take the Origin Core , but its jaw muscles are sliced by Kael Acken before the nape could be bitten through. The Vanguard Coloss throws Jaws into the nearby building, where the Recon Legion surrounds it in preparation for battle. The Cart and Beast Colossi soon join the Razor Coloss in the plaza, and the Warriors prepare to battle the Vestari of Isle of Vestara .

Observing the movements of the enemy's maneuvering equipment , the Razor Coloss leaps up from a building as an enemy soldier appears flying above the Burden Coloss ready to launch a Thunder Spear, and slaughters the soldier mid-air. After the Vanguard Coloss transforms once more, the Razor Coloss charges it, but is intercepted by Mira Acken , who the Razor Coloss then engages.

Enraged by the Cataclysm Coloss 's transformation at the port, the Razor Coloss goes after the Vanguard Coloss again, and rakes the side of its face and inadvertently grazes the crystal surrounding the inheritor of the Forge Coloss . It retreats after a quick flurry of strikes back to the husk of the Forge Coloss.

The Razor Coloss spots an incoming airship that serves as the method of escape for the Recon Legion. It then goes to bring it down but is caught off balance due to Mira slashing its legs and severing one of its feet.

Crashing next to the Vanguard Coloss, the Razor Coloss is further rendered helpless by getting both of its arms torn off. Then the crystal is jammed into its mouth and the Razor Coloss is unable to stop the Vanguard Coloss from applying enough pressure to shatter the crystal, killing the inheritor of the Forge Coloss. It is then knocked unconscious and about to be eaten by the Vanguard Coloss, but is saved by the arrival of Rynor and his partially formed Aegis Coloss.

From inside a military headquarters in Shiganshina District, Galliard takes his Razor Coloss form after Pixa leads Arin Kael onto the roof. Bursting through the building from beneath Arin's position, the Razor Coloss fails to fully devour its target, with Arin subsequently transforming. The Razor Coloss shields Pixa and Gara from the resulting debris, whilst preparing to engage its foe.

Pixa then calls out and gets the Razor Coloss's attention by holding out her shackled wrist. Galliard understands and amputates Pixa's hand at the wrist, freeing them to escape from the rooftop. The Razor Coloss evades the Vanguard Coloss and retreats for the time being. After the Aegis Coloss joins the battle, the Razor Coloss teams up and the two engage the Vanguard Coloss and fight to a standstill.

Then, the Burden Coloss is able to snipe the Vanguard Coloss, briefly stunning it. After getting impaled by a set of spikes, the Razor Coloss frees itself and avoids another set of spikes. However, when it tries to attack from behind, the Vanguard Coloss swats the Razor Coloss out of the air and gets sent flying into several buildings. Still out of combat, he witnesses the arrival of the Primal Coloss to the battlefield.

The Razor Coloss takes some time to regain its senses before noticing that Rynor has been temporarily taken out of commission by the Vanguard Coloss, which is now approaching Zair's Primal Coloss atop the Wall. It goes to ambush the Vanguard Coloss, but is pelted by numerous Wall fragments thrown by the Primal Coloss.

Recovering from the injury, and seeing the Vanguard Coloss heading towards Zair, the Razor Coloss quickly moves in to bite off the Vanguard Coloss's leg. In response, Arin hardens his hands and strikes the Razor Coloss's neck, damaging Galliard inside and knocking out the Razor Coloss once again. Seeing Rynor about to be eaten by Falo Gryss 's Feral Coloss, Galliard, who used up the power to heal himself, emerges from his Coloss and muses on Rynor's inferiority to himself, before allowing the Coloss to devour him, transferring the power of the Razor Coloss to Falo.

After the Armored and Mimic Coloss are overrun by the Jaegerists at the harbor, Falo suggests using the power of his Razor Coloss, however, Pixa disagrees, saying his first transformation will not go well. Despite her reasonings, he thinks about what Galliard would do in his position and disregards his safety along with Pixa's warnings by jumping into the battle.

He uses a nail he found from the harbor to transform into the Razor Coloss. The Razor Coloss and the Burden Coloss are easily able to decimate the remaining Jaegerists, but as soon as they are defeated, Falo begins losing control of his Coloss. Unable to recognize his allies, the Razor Coloss begins attacking the Recon Legion members and Pixa, who tries to calm him down but to no avail, as he almost completely bites through her Coloss's nape using his sharp teeth. She is asked to hold him down by Magath, who cuts him out of his Coloss's nape using a blade. Magath then carries Falo's unconscious body to the boat, leaving him with Onyankopon .

After the Warriors and the Scouts leave, Falo recalls memories from a previous inheritor of the Primal Coloss which could soar above the clouds and believes that his Coloss could do the same. The Razor Coloss does indeed form a pair of wings enabling it to fly. Falo flies Anya and Gara towards the Origin Core, managing to save the Warriors and Scouts from an army of Colossi.

After getting a moment to regroup and devise a plan with the others, the Razor Coloss circles around Fort Salta and heads back to the Origin Core, depositing the Warriors and Scouts at several locations to try and disable it. Falo is informed of Alren's plan to stop the World Fracture and the Razor Coloss returns to the Origin Core's back to collect the Warriors and Scouts (minus Alren and Rynor); the Razor Coloss then flies away as Alren explosively transforms into the Cataclysm Coloss atop the back of the Origin Core.

After Arin's death, the Razor Coloss ceases to exist together with all Colossi.