Rynor Feld ( ライナー・ブラウン Rainā Buraun ) is the Eldian Vice Chief ( 副長 Fukuchō ) of the Warriors and the main protagonist of Citadel of the Colossi from the Marleyan perspective. He is the illegitimate son of an Eldian mother and a Marleyan father who grew up in Liberio 's internment zone. Eventually, he was selected as a child to become one of Dominion of Marn's Warriors. From a young age, he inherited the power of the Aegis Coloss .

In the year 845, he infiltrated Isle of Vestara alongside Bertholdt Hoover , Anya Levar , and Marcel Galliard as part of an operation to reclaim the Origin Core . He joined the Recon Legion after graduating 2nd in the 104th Cadet Corps .

Rynor has short blond hair, gold eyes, and a defined facial structure. His large height, broad shoulders, and serious expression give him an intimidating presence. As a member of the Recon Legion , he wears the wings of freedom jacket over his standard military uniform, with a green shirt underneath. In casual attire, Rynor wears a dark gray button-down shirt with rolled up sleeves and dark green pants with a brown belt.

In the year 854, Rynor has a short goatee and has lost weight, making his cheekbones appear more defined. He has also grown taller. He is first seen wearing a military uniform in Dominion of Marn. Later when they infiltrate at Shiganshina, Rynor wears another military uniform with a bulletproof vest before transforming in his Aegis Coloss form.

After recovering from his coma, he is not seen wearing his military jacket to reveal his white long sleeved button-up shirt with black suspenders and a gray tank top within his white military pants and black combat boots.

He later wears a gray long sleeved shirt with the sleeves reach through his elbows along with a shoulder holster and a revamped black pants worn by the 104th Cadet Corps when he is sided with their group to stop Arin.

Rynor's Aegis Coloss form was 15 meters tall and had plates of hardened skin covering the entirety of its body, except for muscles in its cheeks that became exposed when it opened its lipless jaw, as well as the muscle tissue behind its knees, elbows, and feet. Its eyes were covered by white, organic lenses, and it had short, silver hair. While fighting Arin, it has been noted that it had high agility and was capable of moving at a fast momentum, despite its seemingly heavy weight and being low on stamina.

As a child, Rynor was rather quiet and meek yet at the same time very loyal and driven. Because of his motivation, Rynor was very desperate to become a Warrior, even going as far as to accuse Porko Galen of being an Eldian spy when he belittled him. However, after he was chosen to inherit the Aegis Coloss , Rynor gained a newfound self-confidence, though it was quickly shattered when Marcel revealed that he was not chosen for his abilities. Due to Dominion of Marn's propaganda and his mother's influence, he believed the Vestari of Isle of Vestara to be "devils" and that he would become a hero by exterminating them. He was also very gullible, never doubting the words of his mother and superiors.

Following Marcel's death, Rynor began incorporating elements from his personality into his own. He became more decisive and assertive, even willing to threaten Anya and Bertholdt to ensure they followed his orders, yet also deeply caring and genuinely desiring to protect them. He also accepted that his belief that his father would return if he were to become a Warrior and defeat the Vestari was just a fantasy. In addition to this, Rynor started to develop a negative perception towards himself, believing he was supposed to have failed in becoming a Warrior and that he should have been the one to die instead of Marcel.

By the time he joined the 104th Cadet Corps , Rynor had completely incorporated Marcel's personality into his own. He built up a reputation of being a passionate and honest person with a strong sense of duty who takes his role as a soldier very seriously and encourages others to do the same. However, he was also noted to have a kind heart and a tendency to always think of others before himself, taking on extra burdens for the sake of his comrades. He was stated to be the "big brother" of the other cadets.

However, beneath this facade, Rynor developed serious emotional and mental problems as a result of his actions and living a double-life. While still loyal to his true cause as a Warrior of Dominion of Marn , he was unable to cope with the guilt he felt towards his actions and thus began to suppress his true memories in an effort to escape. Having to kill Marco seems to have been the final straw for him, causing him to snap and develop Dissociative Identity Disorder. During these times, he forgets his true identity and truly believes himself to be a soldier of "humanity". Even after blowing his and Bertholdt's cover, he initially still continued to shift between his two personas. However, after Bertholdt bluntly told him that he was not a "soldier" but a "warrior", Rynor was, though with some difficulty, able to set his priorities straight.

While similar, there appear to be a few differences between Rynor's "soldier" persona and his true self. His "Warrior" self is more ruthless and fatalistic, though out of necessity. Even so, he continually places himself at risk in an effort to reach out to others and get to see things from their perspective, as seen when he trusted Arin and Imera more than is wise.

Following the failure of the Isle of Vestara Operation and fighting in the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War for four years, Rynor's personality has changed so much that both his mother and cousin noted that he seems like a completely different person. Despite the fact that they are enemies now, Rynor harbors little to no malice towards his former comrades, only sarcastically referring to them as "devils" while humanizing their actions and beliefs before his family. He also suffers from constant nightmares about his near-death experiences and frequently sees memories of his childhood. Eventually, Rynor's negative perception towards himself reached its lowest point and caused him to contemplate committing suicide. However, despite stating that he wants to die, he cannot bring himself to, as his dedication toward his loved ones still exceeds his self-loathing.

However, in spite of all his emotional issues, Rynor is very intelligent with notable leadership qualities, able to think clearly, analyze situations, and formulate effective plans. As Arin himself confirmed, he is able to think ahead and in the long term, able to accurately predict the consequences depending on the course of action taken, all while maintaining his composure. He understood the hidden meaning behind Zair Kael 's words when he indirectly implied that the Warriors' meeting was being bugged by their Marleyan superiors, and acted accordingly, quickly agreeing to his Captain's plan and intentionally cutting off Galliard before he could run his mouth too much. During their mission on Isle of Vestara, while it was Anya's job to gather the information, it was mostly Rynor who strategized, coming up with efficient multi-step plans not long after acquiring intel from her. As a leader, Rynor is also very devoted to his mission, to the point that he refused to talk and was ready to die when he was the Recon Legion 's prisoner and Hanna Vey threatened to kill him for not cooperating.

Rynor was born in the Liberio Internment Zone in Dominion of Marn , to an Eldian mother, Karina Braun and a Marleyan father . Growing up, he was not allowed to see his father, as communication between the two ethnic groups were strictly forbidden. As a child, it was decided between him and his mother that he would become a Warrior candidate and potentially inherit one of the Ennead Colossi so that Rynor and his mother could become honorary Marleyans and reunite with Rynor's father.

After joining the Warrior program Rynor and his fellow candidates learned from Zair Kael that in a few years an operation to reclaim the Origin Core would begin, and six new Warrior candidates would be chosen to inherit the power of the Colossi. He was mocked by fellow candidate Porko Galen for believing he would inherit a Coloss, who claimed that Rynor would have to wait thirteen more years to inherit the Aegis Coloss.

This led to a fight that ended when Marcel pulled his brother back and the others left with Zair. Bertholdt Hoover attempted to convince Rynor to give up his aspirations, but Rynor believed that even if he died young from the Curse of Imera he would be remembered as a hero to the people of Dominion of Marn and be the best son in the world.

Marcel ultimately influenced the army, leading to Rynor being selected to inherit the Aegis Coloss in place of his brother Porko. Alongside the other Warriors, the six Colossi crushed an entire nation, leading to them being regarded as a stronger group than their predecessors.

In 845 at age twelve, Rynor, Bertholdt, Anya, and Marcel were tasked with retaking the Origin Core in Isle of Vestara. Before they left Rynor found and confronted his father alone in a kitchen where the man worked. Rynor told his father he knew who he was and that because he and his mother were honorary Marleyans now they could all live together. Before he could finish his father cut him off, calling them Eldian devils and saying that his family would be done for if the truth about Rynor's parentage came out. To stop that, Rynor's father chose to run away.

Upon traveling to the island, the Warriors parted ways with the army at the border and began traveling by horseback under the cover of night. While resting, Rynor learned of Marcel being the reason he was chosen to inherit the Aegis Coloss.

As the sun began to rise, Marcel pushed Rynor out of the way of a Coloss emerging from the ground, leading to the Warriors fleeing while Marcel was eaten.

After the loss of Marcel, Anya and Bertholdt wanted to cancel the operation but Rynor opted against it as he claimed to know the consequences. This prompted Anya to attack him for his cowardice. After getting beaten up, Rynor tackled her and declared his resolve to become the leader as Bertholdt agreed to continue the operation.

Shortly after the Cataclysm Coloss first breaches Outer Ring via Shiganshina District , Rynor assumes his Aegis Coloss form and enters the city and makes his way across it to the interior gate of Outer Ring. Once there, he charges towards the gate as several Citadel Guard members try to stop him with cannon fire. However the cannons have no effect and Rynor quickly smashes through the wall, allowing the other Colossi to swarm Outer Ring. Following this, Rynor, Bertholdt and Anya mix in with the survivors and flee to Middle Ring with them. The three pass themselves off as survivors of a small hunting village on the south side of Outer Ring to cover for their lack of family records which the destruction of Outer Ring, and the loss of vital documents during the chaos, helped contribute to.

Shortly after the destruction of Outer Ring, Rynor and Bertholdt were among the many refugees that were informed of the food shortage.

After the attack, Rynor and his allies enter a refugee camp inside Middle Ring. While with the refugees, the three meet a man from a small village in the southeast of Outer Ring that was destroyed by the Colossi. The man is later found having apparently killed himself, and the three decide to co-opt his story as their own.

Two years after the destruction of Outer Ring, Rynor enlists in the military and becomes a member of the 104th Training Corps. On the first day of training, Rynor is one of the few students who the instructor Keith Sadies does not attempt to haze, as he is able to tell that Rynor has already been through a rite of passage. At a later stage, Keith does ask Rynor what he joined the military for and Rynor answers that he wants "to save humanity."

After failing repeatedly to operate the omni-directional mobility gear , Arin seeks advice from his fellow cadets and is sent to Rynor and Bertholdt for help by Marco Bodt . Though initially unfriendly towards Arin and Alren , Rynor and Bertholdt quickly warm up to them after learning they are from Shiganshina District and are still willing to enlist in the Recon Legion . Rynor is especially impressed with Arin's will to enlist despite watching his mother being devoured by a Coloss. He shares his desire to return to his lost hometown and agrees to give Arin advice. The next day they witness Arin's last attempt to pass where he fails yet again until Sadies notices that his equipment is defective. Upon being resupplied, Arin passes the test as Rynor and Bertholdt watch impressed with Arin's determination.

Over the next three years, Rynor continued his training with his fellow cadets. Rynor was noted by Keith Sadies to have exceptional mental and physical fortitude, as well as a great ability to gain the confidence of his comrades. Arin also came to view him as a big brother to the 104th and came to idolize Rynor and aspired to be as strong as him one day. However, the guilt of all the people who died because of him caused Rynor to develop physiological trauma and he developed dissociative identity disorder, developing an alter-ego that believed he really was a soldier and not a Warrior. Sometimes, Rynor would not be able to remember who he really was until Bertholdt reminded him which saddened his friend.

At some point during their training, the cadets completed a snowstorm training exercise. However, Rynor quickly notes that Christa , Imera , and Daz are still missing. Marco suggests they are with Thomas ' squad but Rynor points out that his squad just completed their mission. The next morning when Arin, Mira, and Alren decide to go looking for them, Rynor and Bertholdt decide to accompany them, as well as Conny , Sera , and Marco. However, they hear a loud almost thunder-like noise and head out to investigate but discover Imera returning to camp with Daz who is tended to by the others indoors.

Nearly five years into their mission Rynor, Anya, and Bertholdt have a meeting. Anya reports to Rynor that Kenny Ackermann surprised her while she was spying and that she narrowly avoided capture. Kenny might have seen her face so that if she joins the Interior Internal Directorate Brigade she could be compromised. When Anya once more expresses her wish to return to Dominion of Marn, Rynor again disagrees with her and decides to destroy Middle Ring to flush out the Origin Core. Anya notes his plan will kill a lot of his new friends from the 104th Cadet Corps, but Rynor insists the other trainees are not their friends.

Some time after that night, Rynor sees Arin take a bad fall while training with his ODM gear. He tells Arin to take a break, but Arin is afraid to do so. Arin does not want to die without having accomplished anything and asks what he can do to be like Rynor. Rynor tells him to simply do what he needs to and keep moving forward. He says that he is certain Arin will exterminate all the Colossi.

In 850, when partaking in a jogging exercise carrying supplies through a rainstorm, Rynor notices Alren falling behind. Annoyed to see him fall behind from lack of physical strength, Rynor takes his supplies and carries them and his own for a time, but Alren insists on doing it himself and takes back his supplies. Later during hand-to-hand combat training, he advises Arin to take his duty as a soldier seriously when he questions the use of hand-to-hand when their enemies are Colossi. Noticing Anya attempting to sneak away from training, he intercepts her and goads her into sparring with Arin to test him. After seeing her easily dispatch Arin, he hesitates to take her on himself but is convinced to by Arin and is quickly defeated as well. Later Rynor watches Arin and Jaren argue over Jaren's selfishness to join the Internal Directorate so he will not have to fight Colossi, and is impressed when he sees him use Anya's technique to put him in line. Eventually Rynor graduates 2nd in the class, finishing just behind Mira Acken .

In the year 848, Rynor is placed in a group of cadets led by Thomas Wagner to go on a wilderness hunt that will teach the cadets to sustain themselves in times of peace. When it is discovered that the group's ODM gear has been stolen, Rynor and Anya investigate the remnants of a campfire nearby, as well as numerous carriage tracks, and deduce that their gear must have been stolen by thieves. Thomas suggests ending the operation early, but Rynor insists that they speed up their progress so that they can warn the other team of cadets, led by Marco Bodt , before returning to the training grounds.

The next day, Rynor and his group come upon Marco's group, who have been engaging the kidnappers, and help them disarm the remaining men.

In the year 849, the 104th Cadets Corps participates in a mock defense mission in Trost District, to evaluate the cadets' abilities. After performing one mock operation with his fellow cadets, Rynor is present when Jaren gets into a fight with Sera and Conny for "stealing" his Coloss kills during the mission. Rynor tries to point out that all of the Colossi were free for anyone to kill, but is forced to step in when the altercation nearly devolves into a brawl. The argument is interrupted by Commander Dot Pyxis , who suggests that Sera and Jaren settle their differences with a cooking competition.

Rynor and Conny decide to help Sera with her dish, and accompany her into the wilderness outside of Trost to search for a wild boar that has been reported, in order to cook it. Although they initially follow Sera's nose to pursue the boar, Rynor begins to doubt they will be able to find it. He is proven wrong, as Sera is able to successfully locate the boar, but upon seeing the size of it, insists that they leave it be. As he is attempting to leave, however, Sera physically assaults him before breaking into tears that he would give up so quickly. Eager to make amends, Rynor apologizes and agrees to help, only for Conny to alert the two of them that their fighting has alerted the boar to their presence. They engage the boar, and Sera manages to kill it.

After returning to Trost, Rynor helps Conny and Sera prepare the boar's meat, and accompanies them to the competition to present it.

As part of the defensive effort of the military after the second attack of the Cataclysm Coloss, Rynor is assigned to the front guard. However, with the supply team stuck in Trost's Military headquarters, he is essentially immobilized with many of his teammates on a rooftop. He and Anya discuss what to do next, with Rynor suggesting that they wait for the Colossi to gather to them before they make a move. Mira asks them if they have seen Arin, and Rynor points out Alren, telling her he was in Arin's squad.

Mira takes charge, leading an attempt to get to the military headquarters in Trost, which Rynor takes part in. Upon reaching the headquarters, Rynor keeps watch, alerting his teammates when Colossi begin to attack the building. Conny, Mira, and Alren arrive shortly afterward, with an abnormal Coloss in tow that promptly begins to kill the Colossi swarming the outside of the building. Alarmed by the Coloss's behavior, Rynor tries to find out how much the three know about it but is unable to get any information out of them.

Rynor takes part in Alren's plan to clear out the smaller Colossi that have infiltrated the headquarters' armory. After the Colossi are lured together by the cadets and blinded via gunfire, he and six other cadets attack them, in an effort to clear out all of the Colossi in one move. As the other cadets move out after resupplying, Rynor is among the soldiers that stay behind to observe the abnormal Coloss as it is overwhelmed by the mindless Colossi. Suspecting that the Coloss is intelligent, Rynor, Anya, and Bertholdt argue that they should help it and prevent it from being eaten. They are silenced when the Coloss breaks away from the Colossi devouring it to kill one final Coloss, before collapsing. They prepare to leave, but are shocked at the sight of Arin Kael emerging from the Coloss's nape. Rynor, Jaren, Anya, and Bertholdt are placed on standby with their fellow cadets, and are ordered not to tell anyone what they witnessed.

Later, after seeing what appears to be Coloss vapor from inside the city, he and the soldiers that witnessed Arin's emergence from the Coloss's nape scale the Wall to see what is happening. Over the Wall, they see Arin protecting Mira and Alren from cannon fire, with a shield made from the torso of his Coloss form.

While watching Arin attempt to seal the hole in Middle Ring, Rynor and Bertholdt discuss the situation. Bertholdt is concerned that the Colossi will kill Arin before they learn anything, but Rynor dismisses Bertholdt's concerns, saying that, with Arin's transformation, they finally have a clue after searching for five years. Marco overhears their conversation and asks the two of them what they are talking about. Though Rynor initially plays it off as a joke, he attacks and overpowers Marco, claiming that Marco is too intelligent to be let go. Shortly after, Anya appears and Rynor orders her to remove Marco's ODM gear. The three leave Marco stranded on a roof and watch in horror as a nearby Coloss eats him. It is at this point that Rynor reverts back into his soldier persona and wonders why Marco was getting eaten.

In the aftermath of Trost, Rynor enlists in the Recon Legion. During the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission , he comes across Alren, who has narrowly survived an encounter with the Mimic Coloss and are soon joined by Jaren. Rynor is surprised when Alren deduces the Mimic Coloss is in a human Coloss just like Arin, and that she is after someone specific. Alren deduces Arin but Rynor is confused after Alren and Jaren tell Rynor that Arin and Kael Squad are in the left wing, as Rynor's copy of the scouting formation had them in the right wing. Rynor asks where Arin is meant to be and Alren deduces the rear of the center rank.

Rynor, Alren and Jaren subsequently devise a plan to follow and attack the Mimic Coloss to slow her down and allow the formation time to regroup. Before attacking Alren tells Rynor and Jaren to pull their hoods all the way over to cover their faces knowing that she will not kill them if she does not know who they are, as any of them could easily be Arin. After Alren and Jaren are injured, Rynor attempts a direct attack while the Mimic Coloss is distracted by Alren's false claims that Arin is dead. Rynor is grabbed by the Mimic Coloss and seemingly crushed but in reality secretly carves a message into her palm telling her Arin's true whereabouts.

Afterward, Rynor tends to Alren's head wound while Jaren attempts to call back his missing horse. The group is preparing to decide who to leave behind, when Christa Lenz , having followed their flares, arrives with two extra horses, saving them. Stunned by her timely rescue and beauty, Rynor mentally expresses the desire to marry her.

The group rejoins the main force soon after, though they are frustrated by Orwin Hale 's decision to continue the doomed mission and the lack of information available. Assigned to stand by at the edge of the Forest of Giant Trees and act as bait for the Colossi, Rynor repeatedly expresses concern about what is going on inside the forest. When the mission ends in failure, he returns to Middle Ring in poor spirits.

During the assault on Stohess District , several of the 104th Cadet Corps recruits including Rynor are kept on standby at an outpost south of Inner Ring . They are under the watch of Miche Zacharius and a number of Recon Legion soldiers until further notice. Most of the recruits are bored and Rynor expresses suspicion over the real reason for their stay. They are out of uniform and not permitted to train, while the rest of the soldiers are fully equipped despite the fact they are inside the Barrier Rings and not on the frontline.

The mood quickly changes when Sera announces that she hears footsteps and Nanaba arrives to tell them that Colossi have been sighted and there is no time for them to gear up. They are to take their horses and evacuate all nearby homes and settlements under the assumption that Middle Ring has been breached. The veterans and recruits split into four teams and Rynor volunteers to go south with Conny's group and help him to his village, even though it is likely to be the most dangerous and closest to any possible breach.

When they arrive, they find the village empty, though there is an oddly deformed Coloss on top of Conny's house. Since there is no longer anyone in the village left to help, Gelgar changes their mission to locate the breach in the wall. As they prepare to leave, the Coloss brokenly says "Welcome home," which freaks out Conny . Rynor snaps him out of it and pushes him to focus on the mission.

However, after patrolling along the Wall, their team meets up with Christa and Imera 's without finding signs of any breach. The teams and their horses are exhausted so they decide to take refuge in Utgard Castle for the night. Gelgar has the rookies to get some rest while the veterans take turns keeping watch. When Imera asks Conny how the trip to his village went, he tells her that it was destroyed, but at least no one was eaten, so they had likely escaped. He cannot stop thinking about the strangely immobile Coloss on his house though. It reminds him of his mother. Rynor starts to tell him to stop thinking about it when Imera breaks out with a mocking laugh. Her teasing irritates Conny enough to cause him to shut up about the subject.

Rynor later finds Imera scavenging for food and thanks her for distracting Conny so he does not keep worrying about his family. Barely paying attention, Imera finds a can of herring and Rynor asks if he can see it. When he looks at the strange lettering, he is surprised that Imera can read it, but before he can press her for information, they are interrupted by the arrival of Colossi and called to the top of the castle's tower. The soldiers are shocked to find themselves surrounded because Colossi should not be active at night.

Lynne discovers some smaller Colossi have breached the door at the bottom of the tower and instructs the rookies to go down and form a barricade as she, Gelgar, Henning , and Nanaba handle the ones outside. Rynor leads the charge, calling for the others to grab boards, rods, and whatever else they can get their hands on. Further down the tower, he opens a barred door and discovers a small Coloss on the other side. He slams the door shut and calls for the others to bring something. Before anyone can, the Coloss breaks an arm through the door and swipes at Rynor, triggering a childhood memory of when another Coloss attacked him and a friend pushed him out of the way, sacrificing himself so that Rynor would live.

Bertholdt arrives and jams a pitchfork into the Coloss. Together with Rynor, they force it back long enough for Christa, Imera, and Conny to arrive with a cannon that they barrel down the stairs and into the Coloss, pinning it to the floor. Before the group can head back upstairs, a second Coloss emerges and attacks Conny. Rynor pushes him out of the way, but the Coloss bites down on his arm. He grits his teeth and manages to lift the Coloss over his shoulders and carries it to a window with the intention of jumping out with it. Conny uses his knife though and cuts open the jaw enough for Rynor to get his arm free before Imera kicks it out.

Christa treats Rynor's arm and says it is probably broken and they will need a splint and bandages. She tears her skirt to wrap his arm and Conny doubts that he could ever be as brave as Rynor, who views his behavior as normal for a soldier. Conny asks Bertholdt if Rynor was always like this and Bertholdt says that in the past he was more of a Warrior, which confuses Rynor.

The battle outside goes poorly and the rookies join the veterans at the top of the tower in time to see them overwhelmed by the second wave of Colossi. When Imera transforms into a Coloss to protect everyone, Rynor is stunned to recognize her as the Coloss who ate Marcel five years ago. Imera ends up bringing down the tower and asks everyone to grab on to her to escape. Hanna's forces arrive shortly thereafter to finish off the remaining Colossi.

The Recon Legion takes stock of their injured on top of Middle Ring. Rynor is disturbed by how he could have died twice now; once to the Mimic Coloss and another to the Coloss in Utgard Castle. Arin is sympathetic and says they have been driven far away enough from their hometown, which triggers something in both Rynor and Bertholdt. Bertholdt suggests that it is almost time for them both to go home and leave all this behind. However, Rynor reverts back into his Warrior persona and confuses this as Bertholdt telling him that this is the perfect opportunity to complete their mission. He then takes Arin aside and confesses to him that five years ago, he and Bertholdt, the Armored and Colossal Colossi respectively, broke down the Wall to destroy humanity, but that is no longer necessary if Arin comes with them.

Arin, however, is incredulous and insists that Rynor is just not thinking straight, as it wouldn't make sense for Arin to just go with him them just because Rynor asked him to. Rynor realizes that this is true and comes to the conclusion that he has been living a lie for too long. He does not know what is right anymore, but he can face the consequences of his actions as a Warrior. Rynor undoes the sling around his broken arm to show it completely healing, revealing that he does indeed have the power of the Colossi .

Rynor then tries to take Arin by force, but he is suddenly attacked by Mira. She injures Rynor and Bertholdt before they can take Arin, but Rynor shoves her off the Wall when she tries to finish off Bertholdt. With the injuries they have sustained, both Rynor and Bertholdt transform into their respective Colossi. The Recon Legion tries to rescue Arin, but they are kept at bay by the Cataclysm Coloss's steam. Rynor grabs a visibly shocked and betrayed Arin and descends down the wall. However, Arin bites his own hand to change into a Coloss and breaks free.

The two engage in combat, and Rynor proves significantly stronger. He punches Arin across the field and though Arin regenerates multiple times, Rynor continues to beat him down. After getting back to his feet a third time, Arin charges Rynor once more as Rynor attempts another attack. However, Arin does not try to punch him. Instead he uses a technique Anya taught him. He locks his arms around Rynor and throws him to the ground. Rynor manages to break free of the initial hold, but Arin wraps his legs around the former's neck and squeezes his neck into his shoulder, causing his armor to crack. Arin then forces Rynor to the ground while applying more pressure to Rynor's right arm until it finally breaks and is torn out of the socket.

Arin then falls back to the wall as Rynor slowly follows but suddenly increases speed by shedding armor around his legs and charges towards Arin. He slams Arin into the wall and begins to repeatedly punch him. Realizing that dodging Rynor's attacks would be impossible, Arin allows himself to be tackled but wraps his arms and legs around Rynor's back and begins to squeeze. While they are locked in place, Mira uses swoops down and slices through the exposed Coloss flesh behind his left leg where he would shed his armor leaving him almost immobile. Arin then starts squeezing harder until Rynor's armor begins to shatter once more, trying to tear him out of his Coloss form. However, Rynor starts using his intact left arm to crawl back to the spot they landed and roars to Bertholdt, who then falls on them both.

With Bertholdt's assistance, Rynor is able to defeat Arin and bites him out of his Coloss body. He and Bertholdt flee to a nearby forest of giant trees where they hold him and Imera captive while they recover in preparation for their escape to Outer Ring. Rynor suffers from a case of mental dissonance where he lapses back into his persona as a soldier, commenting on how fortunate it is that Middle Ring was not actually broken and how they all should be promoted, until Bertholdt snaps him out of it by reminding him that he is a Warrior. This causes him to remember his involvement in Marco's death during the Struggle for Trost .

When Imera starts talking Arin down from his latest bout of anger, she comes close to revealing more information than Rynor would like, so he offers her a deal to side with them. They might not be able to help Imera specifically, but Rynor says they can still look after Christa. Imera accepts and says nothing further to Arin.

He and Bertholdt prepare to leave once they spot the Recon Legion's signal flares . Before they depart, Rynor tells Bertholdt that, once their mission is complete, he needs to tell Anya how he feels about her. Bertholdt is embarrassed at his suggestion, but Rynor admits he is known about his crush for some time and believes Bertholdt should go for it. Rynor restrains Arin and flees together with Bertholdt and Imera, but Imera insists on going back for Christa and threatens to ruin their escape unless they accommodate her. They wait long enough for her to retrieve Christa, then Rynor transforms into the Aegis Coloss and begins running away from the forest with the rest of the group riding on his shoulders.

Despite their head start, a small group of soldiers catches up with them and begins to attack. Rynor protects Bertholdt and the captive Arin by covering them with his hands as they shelter under his chin. The other members of the 104th try talking to him and Bertholdt, but they scatter when Erwin leads a horde of Colossi towards them. Rynor brings his head down and charges into them, but it is not enough to break through. Enough Colossi grab him that he eventually immobilized.

Knowing that he will eventually be worn down, Rynor removes his hands from his throat and punches back the Colossi, but this exposes Bertholdt and Arin to attack. During the fighting, Alren lands on Rynor's head and asks them why they are leaving Anya behind. He claims she is being tortured, which provokes Bertholdt and allows Erwin a chance to free Arin. The soldiers flee while Rynor is still trying to remove the Colossi around him.

He begins throwing the removed Colossi at the fleeing soldiers, seemingly no longer caring if Arin is eaten. Rynor manages to knock both Arin and Mira off their horses, leaving them to face a particular Coloss . While the Scouts battle among the chaos Rynor continued shaking Colossi off him trying to reach Arin. In a moment of desperation, Arin punches the Coloss and screams. The sound reverberates through Rynor, Bertholdt, and Imera as the smaller Colossi rush in and devour the one Arin had faced.

Rynor realizes that Arin holds the Origin Core and he is the worst person imaginable to possess it. He charges at Arin, but Arin screams that he will kill them. This triggers another reaction in Rynor and Bertholdt, and the other Colossi turn to attack them. There are too many for Rynor to adequately protect Bertholdt by himself, but Imera comes back to help them.

After the battle, the three catch their breath on top of Outer Ring, having managed to survive. Rynor asks Imera why she bothered to save them, and she says that she is grateful for what they did for her, because if they had not come to break the Wall, she would never have woken from her nightmare.

Roughly two months after Rynor and Bertholdt are exposed as traitors and escape the Scouts they are reunited with Zair. They inform him of Marcel's death and Anya's capture. They also inform him about Arin's actions during their escape, believing him to be the holder of the Origin Core.

Zair decides to make the retrieval of the Founder their top priority. Rynor and Bertholdt protest and insist that the recovery of Anya take precedent over capturing Arin. Eventually, Rynor decides to challenge Zair to a battle with their respective Coloss forms in the ruins of Shiganshina District, but Zair swiftly and effortlessly defeats him. While Bertholdt helps Rynor out of his Coloss form, Zair declares himself the winner and reaffirms that Anya's rescue will wait until after they had acquired the Founder from Arin.

Later Rynor and Bertholdt camp atop the Wall at Shiganshina District awaiting the arrival of the Recon Legion.

Rynor, Bertholdt and Zair set up camp atop Outer Ring, where they wait for the Recon Legion. Zair assures them that Anya is not being tortured and reminds them of their mission, but Rynor is unhappy with Zair's priorities. Zair offers to fight Rynor again to decide what they should do next, but cows Rynor into submission by threatening to feed him to another Coloss if he is beaten again. The quadruped Coloss appears below and alerts them of the Scouts' imminent arrival, and the three Warriors share a last toast before preparing for battle. Rynor disposes of the evidence of their campsite and proceeds to his station with Bertholdt.

As Rynor and Bertholdt jog along Outer Ring, Rynor notes that the two of them will be in separate positions, and that Bertholdt will have to think and act for himself, rather than wait for Rynor's signal. Rynor admits that he never thought of Bertholdt as particularly reliable before, as he tends to leave things to others when it matters in spite of his immense ability, but claims that things are different between them now. Bertholdt affirms his desire to end things, and Rynor encourages him to keep up that attitude until he can be reunited with Anya. The two part ways.

Rynor, Bertholdt and Zair wait for the scouts in Shiganshina District, with Rynor from inside Outer Ring as they carry out their plan to reseal the Wall. After being discovered, Rynor quickly dispatches the scout that found him before turning to attack Alren. However, Rynor is stopped by the interference of Kael, who quickly slices his nape before stabbing him through the midsection. Despite this, Rynor survives and is kicked down to the ground below Outer Ring, where he transforms into his Coloss form while his human body twitches and his eyes glow. As the Primal Coloss begins his attack, Rynor rises and turns to face Arin, ready to fight against him once again.

Rynor immediately charges the Wall and begins to climb it in order to give himself a better view of the battle. Upon reaching the top of the Wall, Rynor singles out the Scouts' horses and decides to kill them in order to further hamper the Scouts' retreat. He uses the flesh inside his Coloss to remove Kael's blade from his neck and Rynor realizes if he had been any slower moving his consciousness from his head to his body, he would have died when Kael attacked him.

As he is contemplating, he notices Erwin perched atop the wall only a few yards away. He decides that killing the horses is more important than killing Erwin, but is caught off guard a second time by the sight of Arin transforming in the middle of Shiganshina. As Arin begins to flee, Rynor realizes that Erwin is forcing him to choose between securing Arin and the Central Nexus or taking away the scouts' horses. Lamenting the trap he has been caught in, Rynor chooses to pursue Arin.

Arin proves to be much more deadly in hand-to-hand combat than the last time they clashed, managing to break through Rynor's armor with his blows thanks to his new hardening ability. Rynor manages to pin Arin down for a short time, but is summarily thrown off of Arin into a small clearing of town surrounded by buildings. As Rynor gets up he is perplexed to see Hanna and Mira attacking him, believing that they will not be able to break his armor. However, using the newly developed Thunder Spears , Mira and Hanna blind Rynor and leave him open for another volley which blows open the armor around his nape. Before Rynor can react, a third volley is launched which destroys his Coloss's nape.

After the explosion, Rynor's seemingly lifeless body is left fully exposed in the nape, his head destroyed from the jaw upward. Having survived his injury to some extent, he cries out the signal for Bertholdt to be sent over Outer Ring. As Bertholdt comes soaring over the Wall, he spots Rynor and comes to his side, confirming that despite his injuries he is still alive. When Bertholdt goes to confront the Recon Legion, Rynor's Coloss lies supine upon the street to prevent the Scouts from finishing him off while he slowly regenerates his head.

Following Rynor's regeneration, the Aegis Coloss emerges, ready to rejoin the fight. Squad Kael prepares to intercept him, but Rynor ignores them and heads for Arin's position. He is knocked down by Mira's Thunder Spear and left confused as to how his Coloss could have been damaged so easily, having lost all memory of the events following his farewell to Bertholdt.

As Jaren, Sera, and Conny come in to attack, he strikes at the roof of a building, sending debris into Sera and Jaren while Conny uses his Thunder Spear to unhinge half of the Aegis Coloss's jaw. With Sera's Thunder Spear having missed its mark, Mira realizes she has the last Thunder Spear and the plan is now endangered. At that moment, Hanna arrives at the battle, destroying the other hinge of Rynor's jaw with their own Thunder Spear. Mira jumps on the Aegis Coloss's unhinged jaw, ordering him to get out as she sends her Thunder Spear into his mouth, sending Rynor flying out of the nape of his Coloss and defeating him.

After being defeated, it is discovered by Hanna that Rynor had been carrying a metal case with him during the battle. As they interrogate Rynor, Hanna demands to know what is inside the case, and Rynor admits that it is a letter from Imera that he had promised to give to Elira. After Rynor refuses to answer any more questions, Hanna prepares to execute him. Before they can, however, Jaren suggests using the Coloss injection to steal Rynor's Coloss Manifestation, which Hanna reluctantly agrees to.

Mira is sent to retrieve the serum and is ordered to fire a signal flare if there is a change of plans, in which case Rynor will be executed. Some time after Mira departs, she fires a flare to signal that Rynor should be executed. However, before Rynor can be killed he is rescued by Zair and the Burden Coloss who flee the Barrier Rings, their missions seemingly ending in failure.

Four years later, Rynor is present at the battle of Fort Slava at the climax of the war between Dominion of Marn and the Mid-East Allied Forces . Rynor is stationed in an airship over the battlefield with Zair and several other Marleyan paratroopers, to attack Fort Slava once its Anti-Coloss Artillery is destroyed.

After Porko Galen manages to destroy the anti-Coloss artillery using his Razor Coloss and Dominion of Marn's forces start advancing towards the fortress, Zair and Rynor commence an airborne attack. After an initial assault with Pure Colossi, Rynor is deployed in a parachute, transforming in mid air and destroying one of the walls of the fortress, while recalling his life inside the walls and his animosity towards their inhabitants.

With Galliard's assistance, Rynor successfully destroys the fort's artillery despite losing his left arm. Zair launches a final barrage of artillery shells against the enemy fleet, but is unprepared for the navy's retaliation, only being saved when Rynor jumps in front of him and takes the full force of the barrage, leaving him incapacitated.

After the battle, Rynor recovers from his injuries in a hospital. While resting he begins having nightmares about the Battle of Shiganshina District and wakes up to find Galliard watching over him. Rynor attempts to thank Galliard for saving him during the battle, but Galliard begins passive-aggressively criticizing Rynor for his incompetence at Fort Slava and for acting like Marcel while on Isle of Vestara. The exchange is interrupted by Pixa , who suggests that Rynor go meet with the Warrior candidates. The candidates greet Rynor affectionately and Gara insists that they explore the Mid-East city before they return to Liberio. As they leave to explore, Rynor momentarily mistakes the children for his own childhood friends.

As the Eldian unit returns to Liberio aboard a train, the soldiers begin celebrating their victory. Rynor attempts to make small-talk with Falo Gryss , commenting that Gara will likely inherit his Aegis Coloss. This prompts Falo to make light of the Aegis Coloss, and Rynor threatens to report Falo for speaking out of turn. As Falo corrects himself, Rynor encourages him to inherit the Aegis Coloss so that Gara will not have to inherit it.

Upon arriving home in Liberio, Rynor and Gara reunite with their families. The entire Braun family eats dinner together. Gara recounts her experience blowing up the Armored Train, warranting congratulations from her family, and Rynor agrees when pressed that Gara is currently the most likely of the Warrior candidates to inherit the Aegis Coloss. When the topic of Rynor's time in Isle of Vestara arises, Rynor tells his family about his experiences with the people of Isle of Vestara. However, his words confuse and upset them all as his descriptions of the Wall people are not as negative compared to typical Dominion of Marn propaganda.

As Rynor and Gara are walking to the Warriors' base the next morning, Rynor notices that Gara is no longer bragging about her accomplishments, claiming that she is acting strange. Gara accuses Rynor of lying about his time on Isle of Vestara, but Rynor claims that he has nothing to lie about.

Arriving at the Warriors' headquarters, Rynor attends a meeting with the current Warriors to discuss the dangerous position Dominion of Marn's waning power puts its Eldian citizens in. Zair informs them of his plan to stabilize Dominion of Marn's power by recommencing their attack on Isle of Vestara, while simultaneously improving the Vestari' view in the public eye by having the noble Tybur family act as the Warriors' spokespersons during the mission. Rynor, suspecting that the meeting is being bugged by Marleyan officials, immediately interrupts Galliard and agrees to the plan. Following the meeting, Rynor begins to contemplate the possibility of returning to Paradis.

Later that night Rynor reminisces about his time as a Warrior Candidate and his years undercover on Paradis. The following day Rynor returns to the Warriors' headquarters and, driven by the guilt of his memories, attempts to commit suicide. However, he is stopped when he hears Falo outside venting his frustrations over his poor performances as a Warrior Candidate. Hearing Falo convinces Rynor to preserve his own life, as he needs to still care for the Warrior candidates.

Rynor is brought in to consult with Dominion of Marn's officials to help them coordinate an assault on Isle of Vestara based off of his knowledge from living there for five years. Although he is able to identify areas of the Barrier Rings with a lighter military presence, he is ridiculed for not suggesting a definitive attack strategy. After the meeting Rynor and the other Warriors watch Falo overtake Gara to win a footrace. Rynor remains quiet as the other Warriors discuss Falo's progress and Colvin expresses concern over Falo becoming a Warrior.

On the morning of the Liberio festival Rynor, Pixa, and Galliard watch over the Warrior candidates, and Rynor is reluctantly forced to pay for his allies as they enjoy the festival. As the Warriors leave the festival at sundown, Rynor is forced to drag Gara along as she recovers from overeating. Later that night the Warriors return to the fairground to attend Willy Tybur's play. As they are waiting, Falo arrives and asks Rynor to come with him. Rynor is reluctant, but Zair allows the two to leave. Rynor tries to ask Falo where they are going, but the boy refuses to tell him. Falo leads Rynor into a nearby building's basement where Rynor is greeted, to his horror, by Arin Kael.

Arin orders Rynor to sit with him. Noticing a bleeding cut on Arin's hand, Rynor realizes that Arin could transform at any moment and complies. Rynor begins breaking down, and asks Arin why he is in Dominion of Marn. Arin responds that he is there for the same reason that Rynor went to Paradis, causing Rynor to begin panicking. However, rather than transform, Arin suggests that they listen to Willy's play.

During the production, Arin asks Rynor why he destroyed the Wall. Rynor explains that they did so as part of their plan to infiltrate the Barrier Rings and observe the King's reaction. The Warriors intended to recover the Origin Core in order to save the world. Rynor asks Arin if he came to Dominion of Marn to fulfill his promise of killing him, but Arin asks Rynor to forget he said that. Arin explains that he no longer blames Rynor for his actions and understands now why he did what he did. However, Rynor falls to the floor in guilt, insisting that the events of five years ago were his fault. He begs Arin to kill him, wanting "to vanish."

As Willy draws his speech to a close, Arin offers his hand to Rynor and helps him to his feet. He calmly states that they are the same, and he has probably been this way since he was born. At first relieved at Arin's seemingly peaceable nature, Rynor is horrified when Arin declares that he will continue moving forward until his enemies are destroyed and begins transforming. As Arin is transforming, Rynor desperately moves to shield Falo from being harmed by the resulting blast.

He manages to save Falo through a partial transformation into his Aegis Coloss and shields him with his Coloss's hands. However, though Rynor survives as well, he is unconscious and his injuries have not healed. Falo suspects that this is because Rynor has lost the will to live. He tries to reassure Rynor before he leaves to get help.

Later, Gara and Falo see that Galliard's Razor Coloss is about to be devoured by Arin and they scream for Rynor to save him. Barely conscious, Rynor is able to hear them but is reluctant to wake up. Frustrated that they will not allow him to die in peace, he opens his eyes and forms an incomplete and unarmored version of his Coloss. Arin immediately attacks Rynor, knocking him across the plaza with a single punch. However, Rynor manages to grab the Razor Coloss by the hair, rescuing Galliard from Arin's grasp. He tries to get up again, but lacks the strength and falls back to the ground as Arin leaves the battlefield.

Following the battle, Rynor awakens in a hospital and is greeted by Pixa and Galliard, with the latter offering him a bottle of alcohol. Recalling that Gara and Falo called out to him during the battle, Rynor asks where the two children are.

Along with his fellow Warriors, Rynor is later summoned to an emergency meeting by Magath. They are all stunned to hear Magath's revelation that Zair has seemingly betrayed Dominion of Marn and sided with Paradis. When he hears that Dominion of Marn must wait six months until a global military alliance forms before retaliating, Rynor points out that Zair will expect them to wait and insists that they attack immediately.

When Dominion of Marn does launch its retaliation attack against Paradis, Rynor is stationed aboard one of Dominion of Marn's airships. Having sliced open his palm, he parachutes into Shiganshina and transforms in midair once he has caught sight of Arin; upon reaching the ground, the two immediately charge each other and begin to fight.

Rynor is quickly overpowered by Arin, who uses his superior fighting skills and hardening abilities to smash through Rynor's armor, however, Rynor does manage to tackle Arin and hold him down long enough for Galliard to distract Arin and then letting Rynor completely restrain him, but the two Warriors are caught off guard as Arin uses the Forge Coloss's ability to impale them on spikes of hardened skin.

Magath and Pixa fire two shots from Dominion of Marn's anti-Coloss artillery into Arin's head, severely hampering his motor skills, and Rynor uses the opportunity to free himself and use one of the spikes Arin created to impale the latter. He is skewered again as Arin creates more spikes to defend himself, but Galliard ambushes Arin and distracts him long enough for Rynor to pin him down.

Rynor silently admonishes Arin for continuing to fight and wishes he would just give up his efforts as both of them are doomed to die in a few years' time; he then tries to devour Arin, but is stopped as Arin manages to get a hold of his Coloss's head and begins to separate it from the neck by breaking his jaw. As Rynor endeavors to break free from Arin's grip, he is knocked off of his adversary by a projectile thrown by the Primal Coloss. Rynor is dazed from the attack but his Coloss soon recovers and tries to ambush Arin from behind; this fails due to Zair noticing him from the Wall and Rynor gets barraged by debris. Rynor is eventually given a reprieve from Zair's attacks when Magath manages to incapacitate him with anti-Coloss artillery, but is frustrated to realize that Arin is still mobile enough to continue limping to Zair's location.

With Zair incapacitated, Rynor is ordered to devour Arin and reclaim the Founder before he can reach his brother. Another shot to Arin's head from Magath's anti-Coloss artillery gives Rynor the opportunity to subdue Arin, trying to get Galliard to aid him as he does so. As he tries to wake Galliard, Rynor unknowingly transfers to him the memory of Marcel admitting his role in getting Rynor selected as the Aegis Coloss.

As he continues to grapple with Arin, Rynor is shocked to see Falo and Colvin arrive on the scene, and horrified to learn that Falo accidentally ingested Zair's spinal fluid. Despite the predicament, Zair uses his scream and orders the newly transformed Falo to attack Rynor. Unable to juggle subduing both Arin and Falo, Rynor is forced to leave his nape exposed as he holds onto Arin, allowing Falo to begin to bite into it.

As Falo is eating through his armor, Rynor sees another shot from Magath's anti-Coloss artillery hit the Primal Coloss's nape, causing it to begin rapidly decomposing. Believing Zair to be dead and the danger of Arin activating the Founder to be no more, Rynor decides to undo the hardening on his nape and let Falo devour him so that the boy will be saved. However, to Rynor's confusion, Falo withdraws and does not fully bite through his nape. He then spots a severely injured Galliard nearby and frantically calls out to him. Rynor witnesses Falo charge and devour his fellow Warrior.

Enraged, he turns and punches Arin's Coloss, at which point Arin hardens and traps Rynor's hand inside his Coloss. Rynor breaks free and spots Arin trying to approach Zair; he tries to crush him but he gets shot in the hand by a Thunder Spear, quickly blowing it apart. In the confusion that follows, Rynor witnesses Arin being decapitated by Gara, only for Arin's head to make contact with Zair and unlock the Origin Core. As the World Fracture begins and the Barrier Rings start to shatter, Rynor panics at the fact that Gara is close to the falling debris.

Although Rynor manages to reach Gara and shield her from the falling debris, his Coloss's armor begins to crumble as well and he is forced to return to his human form. As the two Brauns retreat from the wall on foot, Gara tries to find Falo and Rynor speculates that the boy was likely taken hostage by Jaren and Conny.

Before they can go any farther, Rynor collapses from fatigue, overcome with despair at the thought that the world will soon be destroyed. Gara helps Rynor into an abandoned building, where Rynor orders his cousin to retreat to the south and evacuate Paradis with the rest of Dominion of Marn's forces. Although Gara argues that they should continue to fight Arin, Rynor argues that fighting is pointless as long as Arin can use the Origin Core to control all Marked Lineage. Rynor advises Gara to flee again before succumbing to fatigue and passing out.

Rynor remains unconscious for days before finally being awoken by a kick from Anya. Rynor is shocked to awake to the sight of his former comrade standing with the rest of the 104th and the group explains to him that they want to work together to stop Arin.

The group leaves Shiganshina and camps together with the rest of their allies. While eating dinner together, hostilities and arguments continually break out between the Warriors and the Paradis Vestari. Yelena begins antagonizing both sides and brings up Anya's role in Marco's death to try to enrage Jaren. Rynor comes to Anya's defense, claiming that she was only following his orders, and explains that he had Marco killed in Trost because he overheard Rynor and Bertholdt discussing their plans. Guilt-ridden, Rynor reveals that he killed the Coloss that ate Marco and tries to apologize to Jaren for what he did. Jaren flies into a rage and begins beating Rynor, only stopping when Gara puts herself between the two of them.

The next morning the group continues traveling to Paradis's docks to gain access to Kiyomi Azumabito's flying boat. Although Jaren and Rynor are civil, Jaren makes it clear that he does not intend to forgive Rynor for his past deeds. They arrive to find that the Jaegerists have already occupied the harbor. The 104th's reluctance to the idea of fighting former allies reminds Rynor of Arin's claim during their meeting in Dominion of Marn that he and Rynor are the same, prompting him to suggest that only he and Anya fight so that the others will not be forced to kill anyone.

The conversation is interrupted by Hanna, who reveals to Rynor's horror that Arin and his Colossi have already reached Dominion of Marn. This spurs the group to proceed with a plan to trick Floch into handing over the Azumabito mechanics, with Rynor and Anya on standby in case things go awry. When the plan fails and the Jaegerists are alerted to their presence, the group takes the Azumabito to the basement of the building they are being held in, allowing Rynor and Anya to transform and attack the Jaegerists without risk of collateral damage.

At some point, Arin pulls Rynor and the rest of his friends into The Lattice individually in order to speak with each of them. He reveals his true intentions, to have his friends kill him so that the outside world will be indebted to them, and wipes their memories so that they will not remember anything he has revealed until after his death.

However, when the plan changes and the Amuzabito need to run for the ship, Rynor and Anya are quickly overwhelmed as they are forced to bodily protect the engineers from the Jaegerists. Rynor shields Anya from the Thunder Spears, which she has never faced before, but the two Colossi are gradually overwhelmed. Before they can be killed Pixa's Burden Coloss and Falo's Razor Coloss arrive to help. Once it is safe for the ship to depart, Conny and Jaren carry Rynor aboard.

At some point, Arin pulls Rynor and the rest of his friends into The Lattice individually in order to speak with each of them. He reveals his true intentions, to have his friends kill him so that the outside world will be indebted to them, and wipes their memories so that they will not remember anything he has revealed until after his death.

After arriving in Odiha, Rynor helps move the flying boat into a hangar. He suggests cutting off the explosives attached to it, but Alren convinces them to keep the explosives.

As preparations for the flying boat near completion, Anya reveals to Rynor and Pixa that she will not be coming with them. Rynor takes the opportunity to apologize to Anya for forcing her and Bertholdt to continue the Isle of Vestara Operation and admitting that it is his fault neither of them had the opportunity to return home to their families. Anya admits that she has often dreamt of killing him and Rynor commends her for her restraint. Before Anya departs, Rynor asks her to watch over Gara and Falo.

Before the flying boat can depart Floch reveals himself, shooting holes in the boat's fuel tank and forcing the mechanics to make further repairs to the boat. However, as repairs are beginning, the group feels the ground start to rumble and realize that Arin's Colossi have arrived. Rynor volunteers to hold them off, but Hanna insists that every Coloss inheritor is needed to face Arin and volunteers to stay instead. As Hanna holds off the Colossi, Rynor and the others help start the flying boat and depart on it.

En route to Arin, Rynor participates in a meeting to discuss how to best stop him. During the discussion, Conny apologizes to Rynor, admitting that killing the Jaegerists has made him realize that he is not better than Rynor, Bertholdt, or Anya were. Rynor tells the 104th that he will likely never forgive himself for what he did to them even if he does succeed in saving what is left of the world. Jaren also apologizes to Rynor, prompting Rynor to recall Arin's claim in Liberio that he and Rynor are no different from each other.

Rynor suggests that Arin might truly want them to stop him, and Alren observes that he has not restricted them from using their Coloss forms despite having the ability to do so. Rynor suggests that the pain of slaughtering humanity might be too much for Arin, and that he is waiting for someone to either take the Founder away from him or stop him.

Rynor is interrupted when Arin suddenly pulls the group into The Lattice to speak with them. He tells them that they will have to kill him if they want to stop the World Fracture before sending them back to the flying boat, where Rynor laments that his guess was right.

The flying boat reaches Arin on the outskirts of Fort Salta and immediately comes under fire from the Primal Coloss. Rynor jumps from the boat with his comrades and uses his maneuvering gear to get closer to Arin before transforming into his Coloss form and colliding with the Primal Coloss to fight him head on. Rynor and his comrades quickly defeat the Coloss but find that Zair is not inside its nape.

The group decides to retreat so that Alren can transform and use the resultant blast to uncover Zair's location, but they are set upon by an army of past inheritors of the Ennead Colossi, generated by Imera. Pixa is attacked by Lara Tybur 's Forge Coloss when she tries to blow up Arin's nape and before Rynor can help her he is attacked by Porko Galen's Razor Coloss. Conny saves Rynor from the Coloss and the group attempts to rescue Alren, who has been abducted by the Colossi. While the battle continues, Rynor kicks the War Hammer's face and is chased by the Female, Armored, and Attack Colossi, with Mira firing three Thunder Spears at them.

Before the group can make any progress, Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss appears and grabs Rynor. It attempts to devour him, but Rynor is rescued from his Coloss's nape by Jaren at the last second. The Cataclysm Coloss throws Rynor's Coloss at the group, and the impact knocks them all from Arin's Coloss. Rynor and Jaren's maneuvering equipment are busted and they are left stranded, hanging from Arin's Coloss. Rynor tries to convince Jaren to let him go so he can transform again, but Jaren points out that he will only be crushed by the Colossal Colossi beneath Arin. As the Ennead Colossi of the past begin to attack, the group is rescued by the arrival of Falo, who has learned to fly with his Razor Coloss.

Seeing that Gara has accompanied Anya and Falo to rescue them, Rynor attempts to scold her for putting herself in danger. Gara continues to insist that she can help, and seeing his cousin's determination, Rynor reminds Falo of the promise he made to protect her at any cost. Kael decides to have the group split up, and Rynor and Jaren decide to attack Arin's nape on their own while the rest of the group try to save Alren. Transforming into his Aegis Coloss, Rynor begins fighting off the War Hammer Colossi which have spawned on Arin's back while Jaren attempts to reach the explosive Pixa left on his nape.

Rynor is eventually overwhelmed and left at the mercy of the War Hammers. However, he is saved at the last second by the intervention of Imera's Razor Coloss, which begins fighting off the War Hammers. With new allies to hold off the other Colossi, Jaren manages to reach the explosives on Arin's nape and detonate them. The centipede like creature that emerges from the Origin Core's nape tries to reattach itself to Arin's severed head again, but Rynor tackles it to the ground below Arin's Coloss. As Rynor holds the centipede in place, Alren transforms into his Cataclysm Coloss form.

Both Rynor and the centipede survive Alren's transformation. Rynor and Alren begin to return to Fort Salta, where the centipede has traveled, but Arin transforms once again. As Alren returns to fight Arin, Rynor attempts to reach the centipede. To his horror, the centipede begins emitting a smoke into the fort which transforms the Vestari inside into pure Colossi.

Bracing himself for the worm and its army, Rynor declares that it will not got past him. As he holds the centipede in place he is joined by Anya and Pixa, who use their Coloss forms to try to hold the creature back as well. In order to keep the centipede immobile the three are unable to defend themselves from the pure Colossi and are quickly overwhelmed.

Following Arin's death, the Coloss Manifestation is eliminated from the world and all of the Vestari return to their human forms. Recovering his memories of his final conversation with Arin, Rynor mourns for his friend. He greets his mother and reveals to her that he no longer has the power of the Aegis Coloss.

To his surprise, she is pleased by the news and embraces him. Their reunion is cut short when the surviving Marleyan soldiers from Salta come out to confront them. The Marleyans threaten to kill them if they cannot prove that they are no longer Colossi, and only Alren is able to talk them down.

In the three years following Arin's death, the survivors of the "Battle of Heaven and Earth" at Fort Salta are made peace ambassadors between the remnants of the outside world and Paradis. As the ambassadors sail to Paradis to begin peace talks in the year 857, Rynor begins lusting after Elira and Jaren reprimands him, reminding him that she is now married. Rynor in turn makes a joke about Jaren's looks before their argument is cut off by Anya, who points out that the odds of them successfully negotiating with Paradis are low. Despite the group's misgivings, Alren is confident that the sight of the Warriors and the Recon Legion, former enemies, working together will be enough to get the Vestari of Paradis to listen.

As one of the top ten graduates of the 104th Cadet Corps , Rynor is likely highly competent in the use of omni-directional mobility gear and respective weapons. He is also one of the best hand-to-hand fighters among the recruits, having also trained other skilled fighters such as Arin. Rynor is noted to possess both a strong body and will. Even after four years of not having trained with ODM gear or having used it, Rynor was still shown to be quite competent in the usage of it, though he later struggled a bit with the newer model due to his inexperience in using it.

Rynor was able to transform into a 15 meter Coloss referred to as the "Aegis Coloss" ( 鎧の巨人 Yoroi no Kyojin ). Rynor used this form to break down the inner gate of Outer Ring and actively used it after he reveals his identity and objective to Arin. The Aegis Coloss was capable of assuming human form at will, due to the intelligence it demonstrated in appearing to work with the Cataclysm Coloss in breaching Outer Ring. As he retained his human intelligence, he used his hand-to-hand combat skills against other human-turned-Colossi such as Arin, which in conjunction with his armor-like skin, gave him a solid advantage in combat.