Sera Breen is a member of the Recon Legion, ranking 9th among the 104th Cadet Corps.

Sera Breen ( サシャ・ブラウス Sera Burausu ) was a member of the Recon Legion and one of the few former members of the 104th Cadet Corps , of which she was ranked 9th out of the top 10. A compulsive food hoarder with an overly polite way of speech, Sera originated from Dauper , a village in the southern territory of Middle Ring .

Sera was a young woman with light brown eyes and reddish brown hair kept in a ponytail that reaches the base of her neck. Her bangs were parted slightly on the right cascading down each side of her face and stopping around the middle of her neck.

On missions, she wore the standard Recon Legion uniform with a light gray shirt underneath. When not on missions, she wore a simple long sleeved blouse with a skirt that slightly covers her boots. On some occasions, she even wore a sleeveless vest over her blouse. She had a slender figure and was of average height.

In the year 854, Sera had grown taller and her hair was cut shorter with longer bangs, exposing more of her face. While in Dominion of Marn , she wore the black Recon Legion uniform with support belts for her omni-directional mobility gear , as well as a brown bandolier carrying clips of ammunition for her rifle.

Sera was a friendly, fun-loving girl. Originating from Dauper Village , she had a local accent, but actively hid it out of embarrassment by using formal speech, even when conversing with her fellow cadets.

Initially, Sera was somewhat timid and prone to make mistakes when under stressful situations. She was rather simple-minded and eccentric, but, surprisingly, her intuition was very sharp, surprisingly courageous, and she had been considered a wise judge of circumstances and danger.

Sera was known to have an incredible appetite; eating provided her with considerable gratification and relief, especially during times of great stress, and food was often the only thing on her mind when at ease. So compulsive in her desire to eat, she had proven willing to steal food from the infantry stores and/or kitchen and had earned herself the nickname "Potato Girl" ( 芋女 Imon'na ) after stealing a potato and absent-mindedly explaining herself when her superior caught her. She possibly developed these gluttonous tendencies due to her younger years of struggling to hunt and find food.

Before she matured and entered the military, Sera was shown to be rather intolerant and close-minded. She only cared about herself and her village, and was very aggravated by all of the people from Outer Ring coming in and hunting all the game they once hunted. Additionally, she refused to change their traditions for the greater good.

In the year 854, Sera had adapted to her role as a sharpshooter, agreeing with Jaren that, as time passed, killing other soldiers had become easier. Despite her newfound cold professionalism in the field, Sera still appeared to be incapable of killing civilians and especially children, exemplified when she had Gara Feld in her sights yet could not take the shot.

Sera argues with her father , as he tells her not to eat the meat from the winter from the ground. He fails to stop her, and as she devours the meat he wearily explains to her why it is important to keep the food: after the fall of Outer Ring , many refugees have come to Middle Ring 's lands, which has resulted in a food shortage due to the extra mouths to feed. In particular, refugees have begun hunting for food in Dauper 's territory, leaving less game for the village's citizens than usual.

Her father admits to having considered giving the forest to them so that they can make fields, while the hunter's tribe starts taking care of horses, but Sera objects, arguing that they should not stop living like they do just because of the newcomers. Her father acknowledges her point, but disagrees, saying that it is more important to take care of the people, rather than live all alone. He finally states that he wants to live with his clan, even if it means to change their way of life. Sera, angered, enlists in the Military in retaliation.

On the first day of training, she steals a steamed potato from the kitchen and eats it during initiation. She is questioned by Keith , their head commandant, while he performs the "Rite of Passage" ritual on them. In shock, he wonders why she was eating a potato during training, and she says it is natural for humans to eat potatoes. She rips off the smaller half of the potato and hands it to him, grinning. As punishment, she is made to choose between skipping dinner, or run around the premises until she is on the brink of death. She chooses the latter.

Christa Lenz sneaks in some bread from the dining hall to help Sera out after she passes out from the exercise, and Sera greedily steals it.

Like many of her fellow cadets, Sera gradually begins to slack off during training exercises that will not go towards helping her graduate in the top 10. This lack of motivation among the cadets leads to a confrontation between Arin Kael and Jaren Kirel over the way the Cadet Corps operates, which garners Keith's attention. In order to spare Arin from getting in trouble for starting a fight, Mira Acken claims that the commotion was caused by Sera passing gas, a lie which she atones for by giving Sera her loaf of bread after Keith has left.

Once, she hopefully asks Mira for her bread following an argument with Arin, but Mira eats it herself. During training sessions, it is observed that she had uncanny intuition and followed unconventional practices, which makes her inappropriate for group activities because she rarely shares her deductions with others.

At one point during their training, Sera is approached by Christa and Imera . Imera confronts Sera about the abnormally polite way Sera speaks to her fellow cadets, guessing that Sera is ashamed of the dialect used by the people of her village and criticizing her aimless way of living. Christa attempts to stop Imera's diatribe, but Imera continues to berate Sera, telling her to speak as her true self without shame of what others think of her. Christa scolds Imera, insisting that there is nothing wrong with Sera's way of living regardless of whether or not she lives as her true self. Imera still thinks of Sera as annoying, and Christa reminds Imera that not all people as are insensitive as her.

In 848, Sera is assigned to Marco Bodt 's group for a wilderness exercise. When out in the open, Sera spots a lizard and Jaren tries hunting it but is stopped by Arin. Late in the night, Sera and her group are ambushed by thieves who take Christa Lenz away as hostage, along with their ODM gear. Sera notes that they should find a vantage point to locate the thieves. They spot campfire smoke and devise a plan to reacquire their mobility gear before the thieves leave. Sera and Conny block off one of the traveling roads, forcing the thieves to opt for a narrower path. The group successfully rescues Christa and obtain their mobility gear.

In the year 849, Sera and the rest of the cadets head to Trost District to practice mock drills using their omni-directional mobility gear . Sera is in a team for the drill, namely with Conny Springer and Rynor Feld . While training, Jaren leads his group out of their designated territory, trying to take down Sera's group's targets. After practicing, Jaren calls out Sera and Conny while in their fighting stances but their fight is stopped by Rynor. Commander Pyxis overhears their conversation and instead declares a cooking contest between Sera and Jaren.

Sera heads to the forest to find the alleged boar that dwells in the outskirts of Trost in hopes to obtain its meat. Sera's group find the boar first, but have a hard time subduing it due to Jaren's team behind them. Sera ensures her victory by killing the boar first. Sera and Conny show off their victory by parading through Trost with the boar.

With their gathered supplies, Sera and her group prepare for the contest. She confidently presents Pyxis with her meal - as expected, Pyxis enjoys the meat and finishes the whole dish. It is Jaren's turn next, and he presents an omelet to Pyxis. To Sera's surprise, Pyxis declares Jaren the winner and Sera melodramatically laments her loss. Jaren offers her a hand and the two make amends.

Sera later graduates in the ninth position among the top ten cadets.

Sera, along with Arin and the others, is assigned to maintain the cannons on top of Middle Ring in Trost . She steals some meat from the officers' provisions and offers to share it with them. She enthusiastically predicts that after they retake Outer Ring, they will be able to keep cows and sheep. This puts everyone into high moods as they accept the meat and get back to work. Suddenly, the Cataclysm Coloss appears out of nowhere and breaks the gate of Trost with its foot. Everyone is knocked off the Wall and Sera manages to save Samuel Linke-Jackson from falling to the ground.

She is later assigned to guard the middle of Trost from incoming Colossi, and is among the cadets that are left stranded and unable to retreat to from battle due to running out of gas for their omni-directional mobility gear. Sera tries to convince the remaining cadets to try retaking the headquarters together, but is unable to convince them. After Mira decides to try to reach the headquarters, Sera elects to join her, mocking the other cadets to try to motivate them to join in the attack.

She successfully reaches the headquarters, where Alren devises a plan to clear the supply room of Colossi. Sera is one of seven soldiers that are selected to kill the Colossi in the supply room, once they have been drawn in and blinded with gunfire. During the execution of the plan, she messes up, not cutting deeply enough through her assigned Coloss's neck. As it turns to eat her, Mira kills it and Sera is immediately grateful to her.

After escaping the headquarters, they reunite with their fellow cadets and are placed on standby. While waiting, Sera attempts to fake having a stomachache in an attempt to get out of returning to battle.

During the operation to reseal Middle Ring, Sera and her fellow cadet Daz are assigned to a team which is tasked with drawing Colossi in the district toward the wall and away from Arin and the elite squad .

Sera decides to join the Recon Legion , seeing that Jaren , Conny , Imera , Rynor , Bertholdt and Christa were doing the same. She becomes a bit afraid and starts crying when Orwin Hale gives his daunting speech about the Scouts' missions. However, she does not back off and remains there, facing the fear of the Colossi.

A month later, she is sent out with the Recon Legion on their 57th expedition . She is positioned on Line 2 and File 3 in the enemy detection formation and is on relay duty. On the way, she is attacked by a Coloss, which was unassumingly hiding behind a building. Her squad members successfully lure it away and she returns to her assigned position. Being on the left flank, she does not encounter the Mimic Coloss . Later, she is assigned to guard the border of the Coloss Forest, after the middle flank successfully lures the Mimic Coloss in. After the Mimic Coloss's capture, she recognizes her scream to be similar to that of a cornered animal screaming for help. She realizes that they should be much more careful than before and warns Mira, who is about to run into the fray, about it.

Later, she returns back to Calaneth District with the Recon Legion, worn and broken.

Sera and the others are stationed close to her and Conny's villages as they await orders. They do not seem to understand why they were stationed there. Sera hears multiple heavy footsteps coming from a distance and they soon learn that Middle Ring had been breached and that they must act quickly. She joins the North Squad to help evacuate the villagers in the northern part.

She worriedly returns to her own village noticing that a certain Coloss had headed straight for it. She enters a house, wherein a 3-meter Coloss is eating a woman's leg while her child sits nearby, paralyzed with fear. Sera takes the girl to her horse, but the horse becomes restless and runs off. Taking a bow and a handful of arrows, Sera runs for the main road with the girl. Escaping to the drawbridge, Sera sends the girl ahead to find help while she fends off the Coloss. She decides to buy time by blinding the Coloss and climbs a short incline for a better shot. Having missed two shots, Sera scores a direct hit in the Coloss's eye with her third arrow. She throws her bow away, taking her last arrow and stabbing it directly in the Coloss's other eye. The Coloss attempts to grab her, but Sera manages to escape its grip. She searches for the girl and eventually finds her with a group led by her father .

Sera returns from Middle Ring with a message for Hanna and receives a steamed potato as a reward. Sera is part of a discussion among the Scouts about Rynor and Bertholdt being traitors.

When Rynor and Bertholdt reveal their true identities atop Middle Ring, Sera is nearly thrown from the Wall by their transformations. The skirmish ends when the Cataclysm Coloss falls off the Wall onto Arin and Rynor's Coloss forms. Sera physically shields Alren from the resulting blast.

After Arin has been taken away, Sera is one of the two to ride down to Dot Pyxis and the other units to inform everyone about the news. She is also part of the team to retrieve Arin from the hands of Rynor and Bertholdt. Upon arriving at the Coloss Forest and encountering Imera's Coloss form, Sera demands her to tell them about where Arin is and she is completely surprised when Imera ate Christa for safekeeping.

When the team catches up with the Aegis Coloss, Bertholdt and Imera, Sera and her friends attempt to persuade Bertholdt to give Arin back. She gets off the Aegis Coloss when Erwin brings in Colossi to attack. Along with Conny, they take Christa away from Imera. Sera watches as the other Colossi all seemingly start devouring the Smiling Coloss, and when they turn their attention and start charging towards the Aegis Coloss, Commander Erwin orders for a full retreat and Sera rides back to Middle Ring with the others.

Some time later, Sera is selected to be a member of the new Squad Kael assigned to safeguard Arin and Elira in an isolated forest cabin. Hearing her friends bantering, Sera remarks that things feel like they did in their early cadet days. Alren later catches her attempting to steal a loaf of bread, and her friends confront her.

However, Orwin Hale sends a message warning the cabin's inhabitants that the government is freezing all Scout activity outside the Barrier Rings and is demanding that Arin and Elira be handed over. Kael and Hanna abandon the cabin with their squads, and Sera goes with Kael and his squad to Trost District where they hope to avoid the Internal Directorate . There, a carriage comes crashing through and seemingly kidnaps Arin and Elira, though the kidnapped victims are actually Jaren and Alren in disguise.

The squad pursues the kidnappers to their hideout, where Sera helps rescue the two of them. While Mira is securing one of the captors, he draws a gun on her and Sera uses her arrows to disarm him. Shortly after, Sera and the others hear gunshots and go to investigate. They spot the wagon carrying an unconscious Arin and Elira with Kael in pursuit. To Sera's shock, Kael kills a soldier pursuing him and orders the squad to chase the wagon and kill their opponents, given the chance. Jaren and Alren attempt to retake the wagon, but are unsuccessful, and Sera and Kael are forced to pull them to safety before they can be killed.

Following the battle, Dimo Reeves agrees to help Kael's squad and tricks two Internal Directorate of the First Interior Squad to come with him to a remote cabin, where Squad Kael takes them hostage at gunpoint. Sera and the rest of the squad listen uncomfortably to the screams as Kael and Hanna conduct their interrogation. When the two are through, Sera and the others are informed that Arin and Elira are likely being held near Rod Reiss .

After the Recon Legion is accused of trying to monopolize Arin's Coloss powers , the government begins arresting all members of the organization. Sera and the rest of Squad Kael avoid being captured, and camp out in the woods outside of Stohess . As they are discussing a plan to rescue Arin and Elira, Sera tells her comrades that she hears people approaching. After Marlo and Hitch have led them to a nearby MP checkpoint, Sera, along with Conny and Jaren, charges at the MP checkpoint in a carriage, breaking down the roadblocks they have erected.

After crippling most of the personnel in the outpost, Kael and his squad escape with a hostage. They interrogate him about Arin and Elira's location while Sera watches nearby, but he claims not to know anything. Before they can question their hostage further, Sera hears people approaching on foot and alerts her companions. To the entire squad's delight, it is Hanna, who informs them that the Recon Legion has been exonerated, and that they have a lead on Arin and Elira's whereabouts.

When they find Arin and Elira under the Reiss chapel , Sera takes part in the operation to rescue them. She shoots barrels full of gunpowder and oil with gas canisters attached with fire arrows, making them explode and creating a smokescreen that hides the squad. During the fight she saves Conny 's life by firing an arrow at the soldier who was about to shoot him. However, the squad is not fast enough to stop Rod Reiss from transforming himself into a Coloss, destabilizing the structure of the cavern.

Sera and the squad arrive and Arin is freed, but the squad is pushed back against the Wall due to the heat and force of the steam emitted by Rod Reiss' Coloss. They are saved when Arin notices a bottle labeled "Armor" and crushes it in his mouth while transforming. Arin manages to control his hardening powers and stops the cave from falling. As the squad retrieves Arin, Sera and Conny find an exit out of the cavern, and Sera apologizes to Arin for doubting him. The squad travels to Orvud District , where they plan to fight Rod.

As Rod approaches the Wall, the members of the Kael squad douse themselves in water to endure the extreme heat from the steam. Sera takes part in the operation to kill the Coloss by blowing apart one of its hands with a gunpowder barrel with built-in shooters made by Hanna. When it is crippled and loses balance, Arin takes the opportunity to transform into a Coloss and shoves gunpowder into its mouth, causing the steam to ignite it and explode Rod. The squad tries to cut the flying pieces in order to kill the main body.

After Elira is crowned as the new queen, Sera and the rest of Squad Kael accompany her as she goes to find Kael so she can punch him. The squad tries to talk her down, but she punches the captain as soon as she sees him. Expecting Kael to retaliate, the squad is surprised when he reacts by smiling and thanking them.

Two months later, Sera is on the orphanage with the rest of the squad carrying some boxes while getting her hair pulled by one of the children.

Later on, Sera is seen eating with the rest of her squad and Marlo. Marlo and the other new transfers are excited about a Coloss guillotine and the prospect of taking back Outer Ring, and Sera asks him if Hitch tried to stop him from joining the Scouts. He admits she tried to convince him of the benefits of staying in the Internal Directorate, claiming that he had been forced to tell her off for her selfish behavior. Sera, Jaren, and Alren are all appalled at Marlo's inability to recognize her feelings for him, and begin angrily insulting him.

In the morning, Sera accompanies the rest of her squad to visit their old commandant Keith Sadies and question him about his relationship with Arin's father. During the entire meeting, Sera keeps her distance from Keith, traumatized by the numerous times he disciplined her during her time as a cadet.

Time passes, and the preparations for the retake of Outer Ring are finished. The day before the operation, the soldiers have a special dinner with meat to celebrate their upcoming mission. Seeing the meat, Sera goes crazy and tries to eat it all by herself. Conny and Jaren try to stop her and Jaren is bitten for his trouble. Sera is eventually rendered unconscious by Conny and Arin, but not before inadvertently punching both Marlo and Mira; they leave her tied and gagged to a post. Sera regains her senses but her comrades neglect to untie her, leaving her in the dining hall after the meal is finished.

The following day, Sera is ready to go to Shiganshina District , along with the rest of the Scouts. They are surprised when the civilians start cheering for them. In response, Sera, Jaren, and Conny begin cheering with them.

After arriving in Shiganshina, Sera watches Arin seal the hole in Outer Ring alongside her fellow scouts. After Arin successfully seals the hole, Sera and the rest of her squad begin to go to meet up with the rest of the Recon Legion, but stop and take up positions atop the Wall after Erwin shoots a signal flare into the air. From there they witness Rynor's emergence from within Outer Ring, and the appearance of the Primal Coloss and his army.

As Arin and Rynor fight in their Coloss forms, Sera and her squad surround the two and prepare to help Arin. After Hanna and Mira manage to blind Rynor, Sera and the rest of the squad use their Thunder Spears on his Coloss form's nape and expose his human body. Although both Sera and Conny find themselves unwilling to kill Rynor, Jaren manages to convince them to carry on with their mission. As Sera and Conny cry over Rynor's apparent death, Jaren tries to convince them not to mourn for him. Sera and Conny do not stop crying but the three are left stunned when Rynor's Coloss form suddenly begins to roar.

Sera quickly evacuates the immediate area around Rynor with the rest of the soldiers as Hanna announces that Bertholdt will be attacking them from above. After Alren unsuccessfully tries to negotiate with Bertholdt, Sera and her teammates use Arin's Coloss form to shield themselves as Bertholdt transforms.

The Cataclysm Coloss begins throwing burning houses in the air, searching for them. Conny begins to panic and laugh, prompting Sera to hit him on the head at Jaren's request. Jaren orders the team to get on Arin to save gas as they move to the river, where Arin unsuccessfully tries to draw Bertholdt's attention from the rest of the Scouts. The squad scatters as Arin begins a direct attack to Bertholdt's ankle, but Bertholdt kicks Arin into the top of the Wall. Jaren formulates a plan in which he, Sera, and Conny will act as a diversion while Mira fires a Thunder Spear at the Cataclysm Coloss's nape. The plan is unsuccessful, as Bertholdt uses steam from his Coloss form to repel the entire squad.

After Rynor's return to the battle, Sera participates in Squad Kael's attack to keep him from reaching Arin and Alren. Sera and Conny attempt to use their Thunder Spears to blow open Rynor's mouth, but Sera is severely injured when Rynor uses debris from nearby houses to defend himself and her Thunder Spear misses its mark. As she loses consciousness, Sera is carried away from the battle by a panicked Conny.

After Rynor is defeated with the help of Hanna, Sera's unconscious body is attended to by Conny. She rests atop Outer Ring, occasionally complaining about her comrades' noise.

The surviving Scouts then return to Trost where Sera recovers from her injuries while her comrades debrief the military on the knowledge gained in Shiganshina. She eventually regains consciousness and eats a few apples as she rests. Later, she rejoins the other Scouts to be exonerated with a medal for her role in the recent battle.

After the Battle of Shiganshina, a year passes and the use of the Executioner from Hell clears Outer Ring from all Colossi. Sera is among the Scouts to lead an Expedition beyond Outer Ring, and finds a Coloss whose limbs were so small that it could only crawl. The Scouts arrive at the ocean and Sera playfully experiences it with her friends.

Sera is a member of a group of Scouts sent to defend the Paradis coastline from ships sent from Dominion of Marn. She witnesses Arin beaching a ship with his Coloss form and the resulting exchange between Hanna and Yelena . She later falls asleep, only to be woken by Mira. Over time she becomes acquainted with one of the captured Marleyan soldiers, Nicolo , bonding with him over her love of his cooking.

In 853, Sera assists Conny, Jaren, Alren, Mira, and Arin in building a railway line. A debate begins over who should receive Arin's Coloss powers in five years and Sera volunteers along with the others, arguing back and forth with Conny over who is more intelligent. Arin tells them all that he values their friendship too much to choose any of them, and resolves to select someone else.

Eventually, Sera travels to Dominion of Marn with the rest of the Special Operations Squad. She is amazed by the difference in lifestyle in Dominion of Marn along with Conny and Jaren. Sera attends a meeting with Kiyomi Azumabito , but notices with Mira that Arin has disappeared. With the others, Sera finds him at a refugee camp. They all take part in celebrating with one of the families residing there and are found that morning by Kael, Hanna and Onyankopon . Later, Sera attends a gathering to hear from the Association for the Protection of Imera's Subjects and is dismayed to hear they are still viewed as devils by the majority of Dominion of Marn and the other countries represented.

In the year 854, Sera takes part in the Recon Legion's attack on Liberio. Together with Conny, she is seen killing several armed combatants entering the internment zone with her rifle, and setting up light markers throughout the city. After finishing, Sera and Conny reunite with the rest of the Scouts, and watch from a safe distance as Arin and Mira attempt to defeat the Forge Coloss.

As the Jaw, Cart and Beast Colossi arrive to the battle, Sera and her allies regroup and prepare to face off with their enemies. Sera takes cover from the Cart's gunfire behind a destroyed artillery gun and shoots and kills one of its gunners. Enraged, the Coloss charges at her, but Sera escapes as Jaren and the other soldiers fire a barrage of Thunder Spears at it.

Eventually, Sera regroups with the other Scouts aboard the airship. Hearing something over the commotion in the ship, Sera turns to see a girl aiming a rifle at her. Before she can react, the girl shoots Sera in the chest. As Conny and Jaren rush to her side to try to stop the bleeding, Sera wonders aloud what is going on and why everyone is yelling. As she drifts in and out of consciousness, she asks for some meat. Despite the efforts made by the other soldiers, Sera bleeds out and dies next to Mira and Alren who were visibly distraught.

After the Scouts return to Paradis , Sera is given a burial. Mira remains at her grave after the funeral service, reflecting on what needs to be done for the Vestari to live.

As the Braus family searches for shelter during the battle between Arin and the Marleyan army, Kaya voices her desire to avenge her "Big Sis," Sera, by killing the ones responsible, Falo and Gara. Later on in the battle just as Kaya is about to be eaten by a titan , Gara saves Kaya, who initially mistakes Gara for Sera.

When Hanna sacrifices their life to ensure their comrades' escape from the World Fracture in Odiha , Sera is among the souls of fallen Scouts to welcome them in death.

After Mira kills Arin, her apparition appears before Jaren and Conny, beaming towards her two friends.

Raised as an animal hunter, Sera specializes in archery, horseback riding, and tracking. Sera is ranked one of the top 10 cadets of her squad, implying good physical abilities. She was also commented to have a better sense of balance than some of the other cadets. Sera's hearing is also very acute, to the point that she could detect an approaching group of Colossi before many of her fellow cadets. As well as physical abilities, Sera has good knowledge of wild animals and utilizing her hunter experience (shown when the Mimic Coloss screamed), she knew exactly what the scream meant (a distress cry; danger) and that they should be wary of it. She also seems to be athletic and useful with bow and arrow, injuring a 3m class Coloss alone with just a bow. She is later shown to be able to disarm a person without any injury to the said person with archery alone. She is proven to be a skilled thief, as she often manages to steal food from the infantry storage without getting caught.

Four years after reclaiming Outer Ring, she had proven to be very proficient in using bolt action rifles, fatally sniping down multiple Marleyan soldiers from a rooftop in only a couple of seconds and sniping a gunner through a narrow opening in the middle of a firefight.