Uran ( ウド Uran ) was an Eldian Warrior candidate ( 戦士候補生 Senshi Kōho-sei , also translated as "Warrior Cadet") fighting under the Marleyan military for the right to obtain the Aegis Coloss .

Uran was a boy of average height and build, though he was easily the tallest and heaviest of the Warrior candidates, with shaggy black hair and dark eyes which he wore oval-shaped goggles over in place of glasses. Like his fellow Warrior candidates, he wore the standard Marleyan soldier uniform consisting of a light jacket and pants, supply packs on the hip, suspender straps, a hard hat with a stripe around it, and tall combat boots. As an Eldian , his uniform was different from that of the Marleyans, as his shirt collar had a small badge with the Eldian star instead of a small clip and his hat had a white stripe with the Eldian star on it instead of a pure black stripe. As is law in Dominion of Marn, Uran also wore the Eldian armband as all his family residing there do as well.

Uran was not the most secure soldier, nor did he possess a very level head. Like his other Warrior candidates, he was trained to aid the wounded and cared enough to come to Falo 's aid, but his shaky nature sometimes caused him to neglect those he is treating. While he was not an excelling soldier, he possessed some margin of skill to have survived for four years in the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War , he also seemed to be knowledgeable about at least one foreign language as he was able to comprehend and interpret the sayings of the wounded Mid-East Allied Forces 's soldier, due to having been born and lived his early life with his family in a foreign land.

On multiple occasions, he was shown to be frustrated about the harsh treatment that Vestari are forced to bear, either by his Marleyan superiors or by his enemies in the battlefield.

Uran and his fellow Warrior candidates participate in the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War . When an injured Falo Gryss is brought back to the trench by his brother Colvin Gryss , Uran and the other Warrior candidates rush to his aid and begin treating his injuries and bandaging his wounds. During this time, Uran begins to panic in fear of their military failing and wraps Falo's bandages too tightly causing, Gara Feld to scold him. Falo later brings a wounded Mid-East soldier to the trench and Uran helps tend to the soldier's wounds. The soldier mutters something in a different language and Uran helps translate what he said.

After the battle, Uran is seen with the rest of the Warrior candidates in Fort Slava 's harbor, watching as surviving Mid-East soldiers are sent back to their home countries. Uran grows angry, believing that the soldiers' war stories will only serve to demonize Vestari to the rest of the world, and begins lashing out at inanimate objects around him until Rynor Feld arrives. He is later seen at a party being held in Gara's honor during the journey back to Dominion of Marn .

Upon arriving at Liberio , Uran is reunited with his family.

The next day the Warriors and Warrior candidates are summoned to their headquarters. Uran complains at how little time they had to rest after the Fort Slava battle. During training, Uran congratulates Falo for beating Gara for the first time. On the way back to the internment zone, he enthusiastically shares the news with the soldiers and comments on how exceptional it is. Later that day, he watches the preparations for the festival with Zofia and Gara.

At night, the candidates serve the ambassadors who came to Liberio. Hearing the guests insult the Vestari, Uran gets distracted and spills some wine on an ambassador from Hizuru . Terrified of being punished, Uran apologizes to her but she calms him down and covers up his mistake. As he asks her about her motivations, he is shocked to learn she helped him despite knowing he is an Eldian.

The following day, Uran enjoys the festival with his friends, and then joins the Warriors to listen to Willy Tybur 's speech. When Willy reveals the truth about the Great Coloss War during the play, Uran and his fellow Warrior candidates are stunned to learn that the 145th King, Karl Fritz was the one who put an end to the war.

When Arin Kael suddenly transforms into the Vanguard Coloss behind the stage, debris is hurled into the audience. A flying piece of debris lands on and crushes Zofia, killing her. Shocked, Uran attempts to free her from the rock, but before he can do anything, he is trampled by the panicked audience members trying to escape Arin's Coloss. Colvin and Gara recover his body, though Colvin is unable to say whether or not Uran is dead. They rush Uran to the hospital amidst the chaos. At the hospital, the doctor refuses to give Uran a bed, saying that there is no space, and he is already dead. After grieving, Colvin lays his corpse down on a sheet outside.