The Vanguard Coloss ( 進撃の巨人 Shingeki no Kyojin ) was one of the Ennead Colossi that could see through the memories of both its past and its future holders, and has fought for freedom throughout the generations.

While all of the Ennead Colossi could receive memories of past inheritors, the Vanguard Coloss could also receive memories of inheritors yet to come. Zair Kael described it as "the power to transcend time", speculating that Arin sent specific memories to Grisha to suit him. These memories led those with the Vanguard Coloss to move forward, fighting for freedom. Arin Kruger received memories of Grisha Jaeger telling his son to protect Mira Acken and Alren Vos , although he did not know whose memories they were. Grisha Jaeger knew of the Origin Core 's bloodline restriction from the future memories of his son, Arin . Grisha also saw the World Fracture , and, horrified, begged Zair to stop Arin.

Arin saw that he was able to reach the Central Nexus in the unknown land after seeing the future from Grisha's memories. However, just like how memories from the past were often incomplete, memories from the future were incomplete as well: Arin did not know that Imera Fritz only obeys those with royal blood . He also did not know exactly what Mira's decision would be prior to his end.

The Vanguard Coloss, like all the Ennead Colossi , was brought into the world after the death of Imera Fritz . Though this Coloss was presumably caught up in the conflict of houses between the eight Colossi of the Eldian Empire subservient to the Origin Core , it is said that the Vanguard Coloss always fought for freedom of no matter the day and age. During the Great Coloss War as Dominion of Marn gradually gained control over seven of the Ennead Colossi, the Vanguard Coloss evidently never fell into Dominion of Marn's hands and remained on the mainland while the Origin Core remained overseas on Isle of Vestara where the 145th Fritz King, Karl Fritz , relocated the capital.

In the year 819 , an Eldian spy in the Dominion of Marn Public Security named Arin Kruger inherited the Vanguard Coloss from an unknown predecessor. During the thirteen years he held the Vanguard Coloss, it is unknown how often he used it, if at all, until the year 832 when he brought Grisha Jaeger to Isle of Vestara. At the borderline, after the Restorationists were turned into Pure Colossi and sent to wander the island, Kruger made use of the Vanguard Coloss to destroy the Public Security and their ship before disposing of all evidence of the event. Afterward, Kruger entrusted Grisha with the mission to obtain the Origin Core from the King of the Barrier Rings and passed on his Vanguard Coloss.

Upon inheriting the Vanguard Coloss from Kruger, Grisha used his Coloss to head northwards towards the Barrier Rings, where he was found by soldier Keith Sadies of the Recon Legion . After his arrival in Shiganshina District , it is unknown how often Grisha made use of his Vanguard Coloss, if at all.

After holding the Vanguard Coloss for thirteen years, Outer Ring comes under attack by the Warriors of Dominion of Marn , and Grisha decides the time has come to negotiate with the Origin Core or take it by force. Arriving at the Underground Chapel , Grisha pleads with Frieda Reiss for the sake of Eldia and the Barrier Rings, but his cries are neglected. Although insistent about taking the Origin Core by force, Grisha is unable to until he is pressured to by the future holder of the Vanguard Coloss: his son Arin Kael . Goaded on by the memories of his family, his comrades who died before him and the mission he was entrusted to fulfill by his predecessor, Grisha used the Vanguard Coloss and overpowered Frieda, stealing the Origin Core and killing her along with the rest of her family , except for her father , who escaped.

That night, after Outer Ring's breach , Grisha reunites with his son. In tears and on the verge of hysteria, Grisha gives Arin the basement key and forces him to take an injection that causes him to lose his memories. As he is injecting Arin, he tells Arin that he must get to their basement, and that Arin must learn to control his power in order to save Mira's, Alren's, and everyone else's lives. The injection causes Arin to transform into a Coloss, and Grisha is devoured by his own son.

For five years, Arin Kael lived his life unaware of his possession of the power of the Colossi until the year 850 , during the struggle for Trost . Upon being caught and eaten by a Coloss, Arin's injuries and burning desire to slaughter the Colossi trigger his first transformation into his Coloss form. In a nearly mindless state, Arin wanders Trost as a Coloss, slaughtering many Colossi throughout the day all while avoiding bringing harm to the human cadets around him. His Coloss eventually exhausts itself, and Arin emerges with healed wounds.

Completely clueless as to the nature of the Vanguard Coloss's powers, the Trost Citadel Guard takes Arin into their custody and questions him about his Coloss nature. When it becomes clear that the Citadel Guard soldiers present cannot be reasoned with, cannon fire is used against Arin, but he successfully accomplishes a partial transformation of his Coloss and protects himself and his friends from the blast. Upon Commander Dot Pyxis ' arrival in Trost, the military decides to make use of Arin's Coloss to seal the breached gate of Trost.

Upon reaching the boulder needed to seal the breach in Middle Ring , Arin's next transformation goes awry when his Coloss falls into a feral state and attacks Mira Acken before incapacitating itself. The Vanguard Coloss lies dormant for a short time before his friend Alren Vos manages to communicate with Arin himself through the nape of his Coloss, and Arin regains control. Carrying a massive boulder through the streets as members of the Citadel Guard Regiment and Cadet Corps defend him, the Vanguard Coloss seals the hole in the Wall , securing humanity's first victory against the Colossi.

Some time afterward, Arin joins the Recon Legion after his change of custody is made official in a military tribunal. During his first month in the Scouts, the Vanguard Coloss is subjected to a variety of studies by Section Commander Hanna Vey . At this time, the Recon Legion discovers the dependency of the Coloss's power upon a fixed goal in mind before transformation in addition to the drawing of blood. After the month's passing, the Recon Legion sets out on the 57th Exterior Scouting Mission . However, the scouting mission is sabotaged by the arrival of the Mimic Coloss . Within a Forest of Giant Trees , the Vanguard Coloss battles the Mimic Coloss, but he is defeated. While Arin is later rescued from the Mimic Coloss, the scouting mission is cut short and is considered a failure.

A few days later, the Recon Legion corners Anya Levar , holder of the Mimic Coloss, in Stohess District , and she transforms into the Mimic Coloss once more as a last resort. After some hesitation, Arin battles her a second time with his Coloss. When he is overpowered late in the battle, his Coloss undergoes a sudden change and catches fire in a berserker-like fit of rage. The Vanguard Coloss gains the upper hand over Anya, though the assault comes to a close when Anya uses her hardening ability to encase herself in a crystal-like substance to avoid capture.

The next day, Arin joins the Recon Legion's efforts in dealing with the sudden Middle Ring invasion . At this time, Rynor Feld and Bertholdt Hoover reveal their respective identities as the Aegis Coloss and Cataclysm Coloss . When the two transform into their Coloss forms, the Vanguard Coloss battles the Aegis Coloss. Despite initial difficulties, the Vanguard Coloss gains the upper hand and nearly defeats the Aegis Coloss until Bertholdt's Cataclysm Coloss cuts the battle short in a last-resort effort to capture Arin.

During the week after the invasion, the Recon Legion goes into hiding as Internal Directorate action against them dramatically increases. Hanna Vey runs experiments on Arin's Coloss in the wilderness, where they discover that Arin is unable to harden his Coloss body. Some time later, Arin is captured by Rod Reiss , who desires to feed Arin to his daughter, Elira , in order to return the Origin Core to the royal family . While captured, Arin gains memories of his father using his Coloss to devour the Origin Core, and slaughter the majority of the Reiss family. Arin also sees the moment where he ate his father to gain the Coloss Manifestation .

During Arin's rescue, he ingests a bottle labeled "armor," and gains the ability to harden his Coloss's skin in a manner similar to the Colossi inside the Wall and Anya's Mimic Coloss. Arin uses this new armor ability to protect squad Kael from the collapse of the Underground Chapel set in motion by Rod's transformation. The next morning, Arin uses his powers again to shove gunpowder filled barrels into the mouth of Rod's enormous pure Coloss. The resulting explosion blows apart its body and allows squad Kael to finish the job.

After the end of the coup d'état, Hanna Vey utilizes the Vanguard Coloss's hardening ability to create the Executioner from Hell , although the effort required causes Arin's nose to bleed.

The Vanguard Coloss's hardening ability becomes an important part of Orwin Hale's plan to retake Outer Ring. Upon the Scouts' arrival to Shiganshina District , Arin switches to Coloss form and uses his ability to successfully plug the hole in the Wall, then reverts to human form in order to hide from the Warriors suspected to be preparing an ambush.

The mission is interrupted by the sudden appearance of the Primal Coloss and the Aegis Coloss, beginning the battle of Shiganshina District. The Vanguard Coloss battles the Aegis Coloss a second time, with this duel ending in Arin's favor due to his new hardening ability.

Before Rynor can be killed, Bertholdt comes to his rescue and wards off the Recon Legion soldiers before transforming into the Cataclysm Coloss. Arin attempts to attack the Colossal, but he is kicked into Outer Ring and is incapacitated.

Alren once again brings Arin back to his senses and formulates a plan for him to defeat the Cataclysm Coloss. As Alren distracts Bertholdt, Arin's Coloss falls to the ground near the breached north gate of Shiganshina and hardens itself. Thinking that Arin has succumbed to a concussion, Bertholdt thinks nothing of it, but soon realizes that he is seeing the hardened shell of a Coloss, and at that moment of vulnerability, Arin in human form strikes at the nape of the Cataclysm Coloss, pulling Bertholdt out of his defeated Coloss form.

In the aftermath of the battle for Shiganshina, the survivors of the battle arrive at the basement of the Jaeger family 's home, where Grisha Jaeger had left three books which, in addition to information of the outside world, detailed his past as well as the moment when he inherited the Vanguard Coloss from Arin Kruger nearly twenty years ago.

Through the years 851 to 854, the nation of Dominion of Marn sent a total of 32 scouting ships to Isle of Vestara, all of which ended up missing. Zair Kael speculates that the ships were blocked from escaping by the Vanguard Coloss and one other Coloss .

As Arin confronts Rynor in Liberio , he declares that he will continue to move forward until he wipes out his enemies. Just as Willy Tybur declares war on Paradis , Arin transforms into the Vanguard Coloss and breaks out of the building, killing many from the debris, and crushes Willy before devouring him.

The Vanguard Coloss proceeds to destroy the rest of the stage and attacks the Marleyan military. It soon notices the Forge Coloss 's transformation and charges it, landing numerous blows before it can fully generate a body. Suddenly, a large spike shoots up from the ground and impales the Vanguard Coloss in the air. After the Forge Coloss forms its hammer and swings it, the Vanguard Coloss breaks free from the spike and narrowly avoids getting hit, only to be pinned to the ground by numerous smaller spikes and bombarded by anti-Coloss artillery . The Vanguard Coloss can only harden its hands and forearms to deflect an incoming swing from the Forge Coloss. It fails, and the Vanguard Coloss is decapitated by the blow, though Arin survives the devastating strike.

Later, while Mira engages the Coloss, Arin transforms into the Vanguard Coloss again to sever the cable connecting the Forge Coloss to its wielder . The Vanguard Coloss is about to consume her when it is caught by surprise by an ambush by the Razor Coloss . The Vanguard Coloss, along with Kael Acken , are able to fight it off. However, that gives the Forge Coloss enough time to recover and impale the Vanguard Coloss in a web of hardened Coloss flesh.

The Vanguard Coloss attempts to devour the War Hammer's crystal again, while still trapped in the confines of the hardened structure. Its teeth shatter on the crystal, and Arin is forced to eject his trapped Coloss form, yet immediately transforms once more. He takes the crystal back into his hand, and watches the conflict's progression from across the battlefield. After the Cataclysm Coloss's transformation down at the port breaks the warriors position, the Razor Coloss attempts to charge Arin down.

The Razor Coloss avoids an attack by Mira and starts to repeatedly slash at the Vanguard Coloss. The Vanguard Coloss suffers considerable damage to its face but is able to divert a few strikes using the crystal holding Lara Tybur . As the Razor Coloss momentarily breaks off from its attack, the Vanguard Coloss notices that the claw marks have damaged the crystal. Soon after, when the Razor Coloss is brought down by Mira slashing its legs, the Vanguard Coloss grabs and finishes dismembering it. It then jams the crystal into the defenseless Razor Coloss's mouth, and begins to squeeze its jaw in an attempt to finally break through the crystal protecting Lara Tybur. The strain causes the crystal to fragment and shatter, killing her. The Vanguard Coloss consumes the fluids coming out of the crystal, granting Arin the powers of the Forge Coloss.

Arin then turns his attention towards the Razor Coloss, using the Vanguard Coloss's strength to put an end to its struggling. Arin prepares to devour the Coloss, though he pauses upon seeing a bright flash caused by Rynor's transformation.

Arin turns around and is able to incapacitate Rynor in one punch due to his lack of armor. As he sees Rynor's limp body, he notices that Rynor grabbed the Razor Coloss out of his other hand once he was punched. After deciding that he does not have the energy to take back the Coloss from Rynor's grip and eat it, he leaves his Vanguard Coloss, for he has nothing more he can do in his state of exhaustion, and flees.

After the Jaegerists effectively take control of the Barrier Rings, Arin returns to Shiganshina District. Coming into contact with Pixa , Arin is led to the roof of the military HQ, where he transforms after being ambushed by the Razor Coloss.

The two briefly fight before the Razor Coloss retreats. Arin ignores Yelena 's instruction to escape underground and goes to engage the Marleyan forces. He soon encounters the Aegis Coloss and they fight a third time, with the Vanguard Coloss gaining a slight advantage. When the Razor Coloss reengages to fight alongside the Aegis Coloss, Arin is forced to use the Forge Coloss's powers to keep them at bay.

Two incapacitating shots from the Burden Coloss to his head lead to the Aegis Coloss to pin the Vanguard Coloss. The two then violently wrestle, until the Primal Coloss arrives and knocks off the Aegis Coloss with a projectile thrown from the Wall. The Vanguard Coloss attempts to close the distance between the Primal Coloss and itself, with Zair protecting Arin by barraging the Armored and Jaw Colossi upon their approaches. Eventually, Zair is sniped by the actions of General Magath and the Burden Coloss, falling off the top of the Wall. Arin nevertheless continues to Zair's position, defeating the Razor Coloss along the way by repeatedly bashing on the Coloss's head. While doing so, another anti-Coloss artillery round is fired into the Vanguard Coloss's head, allowing for Rynor to catch up to him and begin grappling with him.

In the fallout of Zair's scream, a transformed Falo Gryss attacks Rynor, allowing Arin to begin escaping the Aegis Coloss's grip. Falo's Coloss eventually breaks off to devour Porko Galen , allowing an enraged Rynor to continue his assault on the Vanguard Coloss. However, Arin traps the Aegis Coloss by hardening, and exits his Coloss to begin running to Zair on foot.

After Arin's death, the Vanguard Coloss ceases to exist together with all Colossi.