Daiki Yamashita (Japanese, young) Jason Liebrecht (English)

Zair Kael ( ジーク・イェーガー Jīku Yēgā ) was the former War Chief ( 戦士長 Senshi-chō ) of Dominion of Marn 's Warriors , assigned to take the Origin Core from the Vestari of Isle of Vestara . He was the current holder of the Primal Coloss , and was considered the strongest warrior by Rynor Feld , contrasting Kael Acken 's title of "humanity's strongest soldier." He manipulated and deceived both sides of the war between Eldia and Dominion of Marn in order to achieve his own agenda of causing the extinction of his own people, which he viewed as "salvation."

He was the son of Grisha Jaeger and Dina Fritz , older half-brother of Arin Kael through his father and a member of the Fritz royal family through his mother.

In his human form, Zair had a tall, broad, well-toned body with blue eyes, shaggy blond hair, and a matching mustache that descended down into his beard. He was seen wearing loose pants with no shirt on, combat boots, and circular glasses.

Four years after his return to Dominion of Marn , Zair began to sport a more clean-cut look, contrasting his look while on Isle of Vestara . He had his hair cut much shorter, so that it no longer fell into his eyes, and sported a thinner beard.

While in the The Lattice, Zair's hair was more overgrown, reaching his shoulders and resembling Arin and his father's hairstyles as well. His beard had also become overgrown.

In his Coloss form, Zair was an extremely unusual specimen, having a distinct, ape-like appearance. Its body structure and facial features were like that of a human's, and it walked upright like one as well. It stood at a previously unseen 17 meters in height. Dark fur covered the large majority of its body while also forming a beard, with the exception of its face, hands, feet, and torso. It possessed pointed ears and sharp teeth, unlike most Colossi. Its arms were also extremely elongated, with long fingers and fully functional thumbs and short (and somewhat stocky) legs. The proportions of its upper body were similar to those of the Cataclysm Coloss , possessing a massive torso and small head, as well as disproportionately long and slim arms. His Coloss's eyes possessed a dark sclera and red irises; however, they were more human-like the first time the Coloss was seen.

As a replica version within Arin's Origin Core, his fur from his Coloss form became in shades of gray.

Zair was a very intelligent and curious man, as seen when he tried to communicate with Miche Zacharius in order to get information about the omni-directional mobility gear and learn about Miche's language. Zair's cerebral traits were also characterized by a marked apathy and callousness, such as him showing complete indifference to Miche's death in favor of examining the man's ODM gear which he had stolen.

Zair displayed the traits of a leader, comfortable with giving orders and commanding his subordinates. If his orders were not followed, he did not hesitate to use brute force. This was seen when he crushed the head of the Coloss that was eating Miche as soon as it disobeyed him, or when he beat Rynor Feld to make him and Bertholdt Hoover focus on acquiring the Origin Core instead of saving Anya Levar . Additionally, his decision to prioritize the capture of the Origin Core over rescuing Anya, and his deduction that she was not really being tortured by her captors, demonstrated an ability to think tactically as a leader, and prioritize mission objectives over sentimentality.

Zair also seemed to be quite ruthless, though not explicitly sadistic. He had killed human soldiers without hesitation and let a group of Colossi eat Miche when the latter had exhausted his usefulness, outwardly indifferent to the pain that he was about to endure. Instead, he mused over them speaking the same language.

However, in spite of Zair's cold, militant and sarcastic personality, he was somewhat self-conscious of his emotions and savage tendencies: associating sentiments such passion and honor with his negative perception of his father, Zair strived to differentiate himself by insisting upon cold logic and detachment to evaluate his experiences. However, his repressed emotions surfaced at times: he had been shown to take pity on the citizens living within the Barrier Rings , claiming that it was a "tragedy" that they continually sacrificed their lives trying to leave the Barrier Rings because their memories of the world had been taken away, even to the point of having an outburst of anger himself at their sacrifice. To deal with these doubts, Zair would often remind himself during battle to not get worked up and to find the "enjoyment" in life, indicating that his outward apathy towards his actions might have been some form of a coping mechanism.

Zair's views on the Vestari' prospects in society were extremely negative and nihilistic. As a teenager, he expressed his belief that it would have been better for the Marked Lineage to never have been born. He planned to free the world from its fear of the Colossi and the Vestari from their suffering by using the Origin Core's abilities to sterilize all Marked Lineage , thus leading to their eventual extinction within 100 years.

During Zair's twenty-plus years of service as a Warrior (and later captain), he was known to be particularly efficient and ruthless. He acted highly militaristic towards the Warriors underneath him: he had no problem inflicting punishment or abandoning them when they failed. Zair would threaten Rynor with death if he continued his disobedience and, in the case of Bertholdt, chose to simply cut his losses and left his subordinate to die in order to escape.

Outside of the battlefield, Zair displayed a drastically different demeanor characterized by a much warmer, more affable exterior and a kind of quiet charisma, acting humble around his superiors and being prone to cracking jokes. Zair also appeared to share a friendly relationship with his fellow Warriors, though Pixa would later remark on how duplicitous and secretive he always seemed. Ultimately, Arin seems to be the only person he truly cared about, as he feels that they were both victims of their father . Zair promised to "save" him before, which Pixa would note as the only time she could tell that he was not lying. Zair's affection towards Arin had since developed into a desire to have his sentiments validated by his half-brother to the point where he was willing to postpone the sterilization of the Vestari until Arin agreed with him. However, this affection for his brother appeared to have faded after learning the way that Arin manipulated their father through the Vanguard Coloss's future memory ability, disgusted by the way Arin influenced Grisha to kill the Reiss family, and subsequently abandoned his attempt to try and get Arin to join his cause.

Zair Kael was born to Grisha Jaeger and Dina Fritz , Restorationists who were planning to overthrow the Dominion of Marn government and put the Vestari back in power. When the Dominion of Marn government announced the Warrior program, asking for Eldian children between the ages of five to seven to serve as potential Warriors, Grisha decided to enroll Zair into the program for the latter to infiltrate the Marleyan military as a spy for the Restorationists.

At home, Zair was routinely sent to his grandparents while both Dina and Grisha attended Eldian Restorationist meetings, with most of his visits being spent listening to his grandfather recounting stories of the Eldian race's crimes against the world. Over time, his parents' preoccupation with the Eldian Restorationists led them growing continuously distant with Zair, with Grisha in particular showing very little investment in his son's life outside of his studies and performance as a Warrior candidate.

Initially, Zair did not perform impressively as a Warrior Candidate, and his trouble keeping pace with his fellow candidates caused him to be ostracized by his peers and his instructor. However, he did manage to make one friend during his training: Tom Xaver . After a day of routine training, Zair happened to meet Xaver while the man was in the middle of playing catch by himself. After some prodding from Xaver, Zair joined him in the game, and was thrilled to hear Xaver complimenting him on his pitching skill.

After returning home, Zair tried to tell his parents about the experience, but found them in the middle of a meeting with a fellow restorationist. Zair tried eavesdropping on the conversation and listening in as his parents reassured Grice that he had the ability to save Eldia.

During another public training event, Zair was once again outperformed by all of the other candidates. To his distress, Zair observed that both his parents had come to watch and was dismayed to see his father storm away from the field in frustration. That night, he cried in his room while listening to his parents argue over what to do about his poor performance.

After the training event, Xaver tried to cheer him up during one of their games of catch, before joking that Zair becoming a Warrior would be a dumb idea. Surprised to hear a Warrior slandering the Warrior Program, Zair asked to know why Xaver had chosen to become one. Xaver's explanation, that he had wanted the opportunity to study the Colossi scientifically, surprised Zair but he agreed with Xaver's assertion that neither of them were meant to be soldiers.

While cleaning the halls of the Warriors' headquarters, Zair overheard that the Marleyan Authorities were close to discovering the location of the Eldian Restorationists. Knowing that this would sentence his entire family and himself to the border of Paradis to be converted to Pure Colossi, Zair went to his parents and begged them to stop but was met only with their insistence that what they were doing needed to be done for the good of all Vestari.

In a desperate attempt to appeal to his father, Zair reminded him of Faye and asked if he would be okay with his own son meeting the same fate: this only managed to enrage Grisha. Terrified, Zair tried to remind his parents that their whole family would be sent to Paradis if they were discovered, but Grisha only reiterated his previous statement that they needed to win back the rights that Dominion of Marn had taken, in order to make sure that no one else met the same fate as Faye.

Emotionally drained from the argument, Zair pointed out that Faye only died because Grisha took her outside of Liberio without permission.

With no one else to turn to, Zair revealed everything to Xaver. Although Zair had resigned himself to being sent to Paradis and spend an eternity as a Coloss, Xaver suggested that he turn his parents in so that only they would be punished; this would allow Zair and his grandparents to go free. Zair initially protested the idea, but Xaver insisted that there was no other way, reminding Zair of all of the turmoil and strife he had experienced on account of his parents forcing their ideals on him without thought for his own feelings.

After some thought, Zair agreed and turned in his parents to secure his status in Dominion of Marn's eyes as a loyal Warrior. Soon after, Grisha and Dina were sent to Isle of Vestara to be transformed into Pure Colossi. Still not knowing the truth of Zair's heritage, Dominion of Marn sent him to be raised by his grandparents.

Despite believing he sent his father and mother to their deaths, Zair sympathized with their goal to free the Eldian race. Thus, Zair continued his parents' cause by operating from the shadows to secure the Vestari' freedom from Dominion of Marn in his own way. Zair continued playing catch with Xaver regularly during his time in the Warrior program, often using the games as a time to have long discussions with him.

During one such game, Xaver revealed that the Origin Core had the power not only to affect the memories of Marked Lineage, but also to change the composition of their bodies. Inspired by this, Zair theorized that a holder of the Origin Core might be able to use it to render all Marked Lineage sterile, so that they would die out within 100 years without a need for mass genocide. Noticing Xaver not immediately tossing back the baseball, Zair heard Xaver reveal that he once had a family with a Marleyan woman who had killed herself and their son after learning he was an Eldian.

Listening to his mentor lament his own birth, Zair vowed to Xaver that he would take back the Origin Core from Paradis and keep it out of Dominion of Marn's hands to ensure that it could not be used to hurt anyone again.

Soon after, Zair was told the key in the planned euthanasia of the Vestari, the Origin Core, must be in possession of someone who will agree to the plan and be in physical contact with a Coloss descended from the royal family. Xaver asked Zair to find someone who is willing to go through with the plan.

At the age of 17, Zair became the eldest of the Warrior candidates to be selected to receive the power of the Colossi, inheriting the Primal Coloss from Xaver in the year 842. Zair kept Xaver's glasses after inheriting his Coloss, as a memento of his former friend. It was subsequently discovered that through the administration of Zair's spinal fluid into Marked Lineage, he would be able to trigger their transformation with a scream, and control their Coloss forms afterwards, even when the moon was out.

These abilities could not be explained by the Coloss Biology Research Society, who were still unaware of Zair's royal heritage.

One year after inheriting the Primal Coloss , Zair and his fellow Warriors used their Coloss forms to crush an entire nation. Zair used his Primal Coloss form to bombard enemies, in the midst of retreat, with explosive ammunition. With the battle being a large success, the Marleyan army regarded the new Warriors as more effective than their predecessors. In 844 Zair toppled the capital of an enemy nation  with hundreds of Colossi controlled via his spinal fluid. Zair would later speak to his fellow Warriors about how the Dominion of Marn government were preparing to begin the Isle of Vestara Operation in the next few years.

Five years after the start of the Isle of Vestara Operation, Zair travels with Pixa and a small number of Marleyan soldiers to Isle of Vestara to infiltrate the Barrier Rings. After arriving, the group locates a small village inside of Middle Ring, and chooses to turn its residents into Colossi. The soldiers releases a gas laced with Zair's spinal fluid into the air, which is blown into the village and inhaled by the villagers. Zair then lets out a scream, triggering all the affected Vestari to begin transforming into Colossi.

Zair leads the Colossi in an attack within Middle Ring. He is later spotted wandering around by Miche Zacharius , who instantly notes the strangeness of his characteristics, mistaking him for an Abnormal . Noticing Miche, Zair grabs his horse as it is returning to him, crushes it, and launches it at him, preventing his escape and throwing him from the roof he was on. After Miche falls to the mouth of a Coloss, Zair orders the Coloss to withhold on eating him so that it can question Miche about the omni-directional mobility gear .

However, the Coloss disobeys him and he crushes its head to release Miche. Zair then proceeds to interrogate Miche, but as he neglects to respond out of shock, Zair theorizes that they speak the same language but Miche is simply too frightened to speak. He also notes how he uses swords, indicating that the soldiers of the Barrier Rings are aware that the nape is the weak spot on Colossi, and removes Miche's equipment for further inspection. As he walks away, he hears Miche's cries of defiance, and allows the surrounding Colossi to devour Miche. As Miche screams in horror and pain Zair is amused to see that he could in fact talk. He then leaves the grounds contemplating the ODM gear ignoring Miche's screams.

Zair is later seen again wandering around the outside of Utgard Castle where several members of the Recon Legion are trapped by Colossi, despite them being usually inactive at night. He then climbs up Middle Ring and watches the Colossi surrounding the tower from a distance. After the Scouts kill most of the larger Colossi, Zair begins throwing large stones at the tower, killing Lynne and Henning along with their remaining horses. Shortly afterward, twice as many Colossi begin to advance while Zair roars at them from atop Middle Ring. Nanaba notices the unusually strategic method in their attacks, indicating that Zair is controlling the other Colossi' actions. As the Colossi swarm Utgard, Zair descends the other side of Middle Ring.

Two days later, Zair stops in Shiganshina District and exits his Coloss's body, seemingly anticipating something to come.

At the time Elira Rhos is crowned queen (roughly two months after both Rynor and Bertholdt are exposed as traitors and escape the Recon Legion), Zair is reunited with the two Warriors. He learns from them that Marcel had been eaten shortly after arriving on the island and Anya had been captured by the Military. However, Bertholdt and Rynor reveal that they have discovered the identity of the person in possession of the Origin Core: one of their former comrades in the Recon Legion named Arin Kael . Stunned to learn that Arin is his younger half brother (along with the fact that Grisha somehow managed to survive and avoid getting turned into a Coloss), Zair breaks down in anguish that evening. In addition, Zair contemplates how Arin, despite not possessing royal blood, managed to use the powers of the Origin Core. Realizing that their father must have obtained the missing Vanguard Coloss , Zair theorizes that he must have found a way to gain the Origin Core and passed them both on to Arin, while also indoctrinating him much like he did with Zair. Because of this, Zair believes Arin to be suffering from the influence of Grisha's will and memories and must be freed to make his own decisions. Certain that Arin is the person who could make his ideal succeed, Zair makes acquiring his half brother the top priority of the Warriors.

When he informs both Rynor and Bertholdt about this, they protest and insist the recovery of Anya takes precedence over capturing Arin. Eventually, Rynor decides to challenge Zair to a battle with their respective Coloss forms in the ruins of Shiganshina District , but Zair swiftly and effortlessly defeats him. While Bertholdt takes Rynor's body from his Coloss form, Zair emerges and proclaims himself the winner. He then tells the two of them that they can rescue Anya after securing the Origin Core, informing them of his plan to wait in Shiganshina to ambush the Recon Legion in order to capture Arin and the Origin Core.

After settling their disagreement, the three Warriors begin waiting for the Recon Legion atop Outer Ring. Zair advises Rynor and Bertholdt not to worry about Anya, pointing out that the Scouts would not be able to torture her without triggering her Coloss abilities and theorizing that she is likely only in hiding. Noting their dissatisfaction, he questions whether they have lost their resolve. He offers to fight Rynor again to decide what they will do next but threatens to feed him to another Warrior if he loses again. When neither of them is willing to risk fighting him, Zair proclaims that their sole objective is to regain the Central Nexus in order to put an end to what he calls a "cursed history." The Burden Coloss arrives shortly afterward to inform them of the Scouts' imminent arrival, and the three proceed to their designated posts to prepare for the upcoming battle.

The next day, the Recon Legion initiates its operation to retake Outer Ring. After Arin manages to seal the outer gate of Shiganshina, the Warriors launch their attack. After Rynor's failed attack and momentary downfall, Zair transforms along with a horde of Colossi outside the Wall and immediately throws a large boulder at the Wall's inner gate, destroying it so that the Recon Legion's horses will not get over it. Having cut off the only escape route for the soldiers and trapping them within Shiganshina, Zair begins advancing toward the district with his army. As he advances he roars, ordering smaller Colossi to attack the Recon Legion's horses while having the larger Colossi form a circle around the entrance of Shiganshina District in order to prevent the soldiers from escaping.

After some time, Zair receives the signal to throw a barrel containing Bertholdt into Shiganshina in the form of a roar from Rynor's Coloss form. After sending Bertholdt over the Wall, Zair begins assaulting the Scouts north of the district with a barrage of rocks, shredding the front line of buildings in the process. He muses about his first pitch being too high, and decides to go for a "perfect game." Each throw breaks the sound barrier and every soldier who is caught in the barrage is utterly mutilated, forcing Kael and the rest of the soldiers to retreat to the base of the Wall.

As he continues to throw projectiles, Zair notices a large group of soldiers, led by Orwin Hale , riding toward him. Zair notes that he had expected a better counterattack than a suicide charge, before throwing another barrage of rocks at them. As his pitches hit their mark, Zair laments the fact that King Reiss erased the soldiers' memories of the world, forcing them to keep making the same mistakes and push themselves to "die honorably" as a result of their ignorance. Getting worked up at the thought, Zair accidentally crushes the stones in his hand even into dust and is forced to calm himself down for a moment before resuming his attack.

Killing many more soldiers, Zair notices there are some that, despite the odds, are still alive and continue their charge. Seeing their persistence causes him to become annoyed again, opining that they can shoot smoke at him all day long, as it will not achieve anything. As he finishes off the stragglers with a final barrage of stones, Zair begins to lament their deaths before noticing with alarm that the Colossi flanking his right were slain. Bewildered as to what is happening, he is suddenly ambushed by Kael, who slices his arm to pieces as he attempts to grab him. Realizing that he is facing the soldier that Rynor and Bertholdt warned him about. Seeing Kael apparently aiming for his nape, he covers it with his hand, but Kael bypasses it for his eyes before going for his achilles tendons, causing him to collapse to the ground. Realizing he has no time to harden his nape, he puts his hand over it again, but is unsuccessful as it is cut to pieces as well.

As Kael begins to cut open his nape, Zair emerges from his Coloss, trying to use the steam emitted to blind Kael, but is immediately skewered through the mouth by the captain. Kael does not kill him however, aware that they could take the power of the Primal Coloss if he could find a survivor. Before he could do anything, Pixa appears and grabs Zair, who then orders four Colossi to attack Kael, while gloating that despite the losses, the Recon Legion would be wiped out.

The Burden Coloss carries Zair into Shiganshina, where he locates and approaches Arin, who is holding Bertholdt hostage. Zair recognizes him as his younger half brother and tries to talk Arin down, claiming that they are both victims of his father . Arin is shocked by Zair's resemblance to Grisha, but before Zair can further elaborate he is forced to retreat due to the arrival of Kael, whose sudden appearance takes Zair by surprise. Seeing Rynor also in mortal danger, Zair makes the painful decision to abandon the former for the latter , remarking on how Rynor should consider himself lucky. The battle ends in failure for the Warriors, having lost the power of the Cataclysm Coloss to Paradis.

At some point after the battle at Shiganshina the Dominion of Marn Mid-East War began, Zair In secret sends his group of followers - the Anti-Marleyan Volunteers - to Isle of Vestara to make contact with the Vestari living there. Zair also gives the volunteers a list of requirements that Isle of Vestara would need to fulfill in exchange for his aid. Working with his most trusted follower Yelena (and unknown to the other volunteer members), Zair also arranged the Marleyan survey ships to carry large stocks of wine mixed with his spinal fluid. This wine would be served to members of the military, starting with the high-ranking officers.

Zair would later make contact with Kiyomi Azumabito from the nation of Hizuru on the possibility of forming an alliance with Paradis . As a token of goodwill, Zair brings out the vertical maneuvering equipment he took from Miche Zacharias and presents it to her; he mentions the existence of iceburst stone , which powers the device and there are scant traces still inside. Noting that it is found solely on Paradis, Zair tells Kiyomi it would greatly assist the nation of Hizuru. The two sides agree and Kiyomi makes plans to travel to Paradis while Zair returned to Dominion of Marn and continued with the war effort.

At some point during the war, it was decided that Warrior candidate Colvin Gryss would be the one to inherit Zair's Primal Coloss at the end of Zair's term. At the climax of the war, 4 years since it began, Zair takes part in the assault on Fort Slava . As Eldian captives parachute down from an airship, Zair transforms the captives into Colossi, inflicting a devastating airstrike upon Fort Slava. After the Aegis Coloss destroys the Anti-Coloss artillery , Zair transforms into the Primal Coloss and joins the battle. Using leftover artillery rounds as projectiles, he destroys the Mid-East Allied Forces fleet. The fleet fires upon Zair before their destruction, but Rynor's Aegis Coloss saves Zair, being destroyed in the process.

After the conclusion of the battle, Zair takes part in a meeting with Dominion of Marn officials to discuss the war's conclusion and Dominion of Marn's future. Here, Zair suggests that Dominion of Marn should resume the Isle of Vestara Operation to retake the Origin Core as soon as possible, so that the Origin Core can be used to buy time to reorganize their military. Zair also expresses his desire to redeem himself for his failure in Paradis before the time comes for Colvin to inherit the Primal Coloss.

After the meeting, Zair speaks with Colvin about the latter's unique powers as the Primal Coloss. Commander Magath joins the conversation, and they discuss the 32 survey ships that have disappeared when sent to Isle of Vestara. Zair speculates that at least two Colossi were responsible for the disappearance of the 32 survey ships, and informs Magath of the existence of the Ackermann clan in Paradis.

Zair departs on a train to Liberio . After the train arrives, Zair walks with the Warrior forces into the Internment Zone. When he arrives, he is lovingly welcomed home by his grandparents.

Zair later holds an unofficial meeting, attended by his fellow Warriors and Colvin. He speaks about the world's growing animosity towards Vestari, as well as the future in which conventional weaponry will eclipse Coloss weaponry. He also expresses worry for the future of the Eldian race for these reasons. Zair states that to solve these concerns, Dominion of Marn must continue with the plan to regain the Founder , with the prestigious Tybur family narrating the Warriors plans to the world, improving the reputation of the mainland Vestari. These points are debated among the Warriors, with him and Pixa staying on the same wavelength throughout. The unofficial meeting had been tapped by Marleyan authorities, with Zair seemingly aware of this fact. Afterwards, along with the Warriors, Zair attends a meeting with his superiors where they explain their plans for the new operation on Isle of Vestara.

Zair would eventually meet with Arin in Liberio while the latter is infiltrating Dominion of Marn. He notes how similar in appearance Arin looks compared to their father; he mentions to Arin that he knows the details behind the Ackerman clan lineage and reveals it to him. Finally, Zair tells Arin of his plan to euthanize the Eldian race and asks him if he will support it by using the powers of the Origin Core to render all Vestari sterile. After a moment, Zair is relieved to hear Arin agreeing to help, sharing his belief that Grisha's strategy was a mistake. Zair agrees to meet with Arin within Shiganshina District and gives Arin a baseball, in lieu of a handshake, to symbolize their agreement.

On the night of the Liberio Festival, Zair arrives with the Warriors for Willy Tybur 's speech. When Falo Gryss asks Rynor to accompany him, Zair allows it since there is still time before the play begins. Just as the show is starting, a Dominion of Marn soldier informs the remaining Warriors that Magath has summoned them. Whilst being walked to Magath's apparent location, the soldier instructs Zair to split off and go through the front gate, which he does.

After hearing the battle between the Vanguard Coloss , the Forge Coloss and the military, Zair transforms into the Primal Coloss and approaches the battlefield while joining the Cart and Jaw Colossi . He provides artillery once more by launching debris at the soldiers and nearly gets attacked by two soldiers but is saved by Pixa. He has her provide covering fire from behind and he repels the Scouts. He then announces that Arin is not his enemy, but another soldier from Isle of Vestara is: Kael Acken. He calls out to Kael and demands him to come face him again, stating that "time is running out." Shortly afterwards, he notices Alren 's transformation into the Cataclysm Coloss from the nearby harbor along with everyone else. While the explosion has everyone distracted, Kael ambushes Zair and slices his nape, rendering his Coloss inert. Kael immediately throws a bomb into Zair's open nape, blowing it up.

Using the explosion as cover, Kael cuts Zair out of his nape and brings him aboard the Eldian airship . As he regenerates his severed limbs, Zair converses with both Arin and Hanna Vey . When both Gara Feld and Falo are brought aboard, Zair expresses surprise at seeing them there. He then discusses with Hanna that despite a number of "miscalculations," namely the two Warrior cadets, the sacrifices made during the fight were worth it to ensure Eldia had both the Origin Core and someone who possesses a Coloss Manifestation with royal blood. He is now confident that Eldia will have a chance at finally obtaining their freedom.

After arriving on Isle of Vestara, Zair is seen with Kael inside of a carriage, commenting that the citizens celebrating in the streets are ignorant of the true impact of the assault. Although Kael tries making death threats to him, Zair is unperturbed and coolly insists that Kael take him to Arin. Kael instead takes Zair to the Forest of Giant Trees , informing him that this is where he will be staying. Marveling at the sight, Zair asks Kael if he can show the trees to Gara and Falo, but is told that it depends on his own actions.

While Zair is being guarded inside of the forest, he explains how he was able to transform the citizens of Ragako. Kael is bothered by Zair's nonchalant explanation, accusing him of having no concern for human life. Zair waves away Kael's criticisms, explaining that his loyalty to Dominion of Marn would have been questioned if he had not complied with his orders. Changing the subject, Zair requests to know when he will be able to begin experimenting with Arin's Coloss abilities, but Kael claims he is not allowed to answer. Zair claims that it would be unwise to remain inactive for much longer, to which Kael readily agrees.

He later asks if there is any wine left and Kael informs him that the soldiers drank it all; Zair sarcastically mentions that Kael comes up with the worst punishments. As Kael walks off, Zair sees an opportunity to escape and runs into the forest. Before Kael or any of the other soldiers can stop him, Zair lets out a piercing scream. This triggers all the Scouts in the camp who drank the wine to transform into Colossi, which fall out of the trees around Kael. Confident that Kael would not slaughter his own subordinates, Zair mockingly states he did not want to do this but laments that this is not a proper conflict. Regardless, he summons three of the newly created Colossi and bids farewell to Kael. He ponders if the Vestari truly understand the ramifications of their surprise attack on Liberio and inwardly states that only he and Arin truly know the costs.

As he plans to have the Colossi take him to the agreed upon meeting place with Arin, Zair is stunned to see a bloodied and angered Kael appear in front of him. Zair frantically orders one of the Colossi to attack him and then subsequently transforms into the Primal Coloss. He immediately hardens his nape and scans the area for Kael. Finding him, Zair tears apart the final surviving Coloss and throws the bloody Coloss pieces towards his foe. He chastises Kael for killing his subordinates and notices many tree branches falling towards him. Zair is unable to spot Kael among the branches, and is struck by several Thunder Spears that pierce through the hardened nape of the Primal Coloss. Horrified, he only has a moment to process this before Kael detonates the spears, severely injuring Zair.

Sometime later, Zair awakens tied up on a carriage with a Thunder Spear sticking out of his abdomen. Kael informs him that the fuse and triggering mechanism are tied around his neck and any sudden movements can set it off. While Zair vomits uncontrollably, Kael begins to slice off Zair's legs to prevent him from transforming, making Zair scream in agony. Only half conscious, Zair asks where his glasses are, before having his memories of Xaver flash before his eyes. Zair mutters about his plan to euthanize the Eldian nation to ensure the world's safety. Kael mocks him for this, declaring that his impending death at the hands of a Coloss is too merciful for the lives he has taken. Zair weakly protests that he was saving their potential children's lives by killing them, prompting Kael to angrily prepare to cut off his legs again. Suddenly, Zair screams out Xaver's name and jerks his head back, pulling the pin on the Thunder Spear lodged in his stomach, causing an explosion.

The explosion leaves Zair completely mutilated and his wounds too severe for his body to regenerate from. Succumbing to his injuries, Zair's last thoughts are of the meeting he had with Arin in which the two of them agreed to sterilize the Eldian race. One of the Colossi Zair created regenerates and approaches his corpse. Rather than devour him, the Coloss tears open its own stomach and places him inside.

Zair regains consciousness to find himself alone in an unknown location . Surprised to discover that he is somehow still alive, he notices a lone girl silently reconstructing his body out of soil. After a short time, Zair is released from the Coloss's stomach, fully healed from his injuries and in a slight daze. He watches on as soldiers pursue Hanna before being approached by a number of Jaegerists, with Floch trying to ask him what happened. Recomposing himself, Zair avoids his questions and merely proclaims that they just have to move forward before departing with the Jaegerists.

Zair arrives in Shiganshina to find the district under siege from Dominion of Marn's forces and Arin locked in combat with Rynor. After climbing to the top of Outer Ring in his Coloss form, Zair launches debris which knocks Rynor off of Arin and commends his younger brother for standing against Dominion of Marn's forces, comforting him that he will now take care of the enemies. Zair throws a barrage of stones which destroys at least some of the Marleyan airships before turning his focus towards Pixa and Magath. After the Marleyans forces begin to fall back, he spots Rynor charging at Arin and proceeds to bombard the Aegis Coloss, as well as Galliard when he tries to ambush Arin.

Zair begins to gloat about how close he and Arin are to achieving their dream but is silenced after spotting the charred remains of the Burden Coloss. Believing Pixa to have perished in the attack, he mourns his former comrade's death. He is caught off guard by the sight of several Marleyan soldiers emerging near the Burden Coloss to attack. Before Zair can react, Magath fires a round from the anti-Coloss artillery atop the Burden Coloss's corpse, damaging his Coloss's nape and shearing off much of his human body. Incapacitated by this, Zair plummets off the Wall and crashes into the ground.

As Zair comes to his senses, he sees Arin grappling with Rynor and announces to his brother that he will transform the soldiers who have ingested his spinal fluid. However, before he can scream he notices Colvin and Falo arriving. Zair is heartbroken to hear from Colvin that Falo accidentally ingested his spinal fluid, but refuses Colvin's request not to scream until Falo has gotten out of range. Zair gives his condolences to Colvin before letting out a scream, triggering all the affected Vestari to transform into Pure Colossi.

Seeing Arin struggling to get away from Rynor, Zair orders a newly transformed Falo to fight Rynor and kill him. After giving the command, Zair is subsequently shot by Magath's anti-Coloss artillery a second time. Exiting their Colossi to make it appear that they have both been defeated, Zair crawls towards Arin and reaches out towards his brother. However, before the two can reach each other, Arin is decapitated by a blast from an anti-Coloss rifle fired by Gara.

Arin's head lands in Zair's outstretched hand, allowing him to activate the Origin Core before Arin can die from his injuries. Zair arrives in the Central Nexus first and is forced to wait for Arin. While waiting, he uses his time to learn more about the Origin Core, culminating in him learning to break Karl Fritz 's vow of nonaggression.

Zair waits in chains until Arin finally arrives, informing his confused younger brother that they are inside the Central Nexus. As Imera Fritz approaches them, Zair explains her presence to Arin, theorizing that she uses the sand in the Central Nexus to create the Ennead Colossi and heal their users' bodies when they are injured. Zair encourages Arin to command Imera to begin their euthanasia plan, but Arin first asks about Zair's chains. Zair claims that the chains are what keeps Karl Fritz's descendants from acting freely.

To Zair's despair, Arin reveals that he has no intention of following the euthanasia plan and was only using his brother as a means to activate the Founder. Heartbroken, Zair reveals to Arin that he freed himself from Fritz's vow while waiting for Arin, and that Imera will only obey a person with royal blood. Chaining Arin, Zair laments that Arin has been brainwashed by Grisha, but promises to save him. Despite Arin's protests, Zair begins showing him their father's memories.

As the brothers systematically observe Grisha's memories of his time on Paradis, Zair bitterly notes how seemingly easy it was for Grisha to move on to a new family and forget about his old one. He shows Arin how Grisha used his occupation as a doctor to socialize with nobles to try to gain information on the royal family, despite the risk such actions would pose for his family. Zair himself is surprised to learn that Grisha apparently delayed his mission upon discovering the Reiss family's chapel out of love for his new family, coldly admitting that Grisha might have learned from his failure with Zair. To Zair's shock, his musings are interrupted by a scene of Grisha seemingly trying to apologize to his first son in his sleep.

The two brothers continue their journey through Grisha's memories, with Zair admitting that Arin was evidently not brainwashed by Grisha. In light of this, Zair questions Arin on why he betrayed him, and what he had planned to do with the Founder's power. Arin answers by stating he had always been this way and that the pitiful brother Zair had wished for does not exist in him. Despite this, Zair promises to save Arin by opening his eyes to the danger Eldia presents, deciding to do this before saving the world with his euthanasia plan.

Zair and Arin eventually arrive at the date Grisha steals the Origin Core from Frieda at the Reiss Chapel. While watching the memory play out, Zair notices Arin's face distorted with rage at listening to King Fritz's ideology, and is later astonished when Grisha explains the Vanguard Coloss's ability to peer into its future inheritors' memories. Zair is shocked once more when Grisha finds himself unable to kill the Reiss family, confused as to whether the past had changed. His shock quickly turns to horror when Arin begins talking to their father, spurring him on in his mission.

In the wake of his attack on the Reiss family, Grisha becomes aware of Zair's presence, revealing to him that the future will occur the way Arin wants it to, and that it is terrible. Grisha embraces Zair, expressing regret that he was a poor father and still loves him. Grisha ends by begging Zair to stop Arin.

In the unknown land, Zair breaks away from Arin, horrified by what he has seen. Arin thanks Zair for allowing him to access Grisha's path, thereby enabling the future he had seen within his father's memories to occur. Terrified, Zair orders Imera to steal the ability to reproduce from the Marked Lineage. As she begins walking towards the pillar of light, Zair tells Arin that Grisha had wished to stop him, having seen part of Arin's future which Arin had not. When Arin escapes his chains after a struggle, Zair says that it is pointless, as once Imera begins to move, nothing is capable of stopping her.

Arin embraces Imera and begs her to help him end the world with her power, much to Zair's alarm. He is even more alarmed to see that Imera has stopped moving and frantically tries to reach his brother and Imera, repeatedly ordering Imera to obey his previous command, stating that he is descended from royal blood. However, before he can reach them, Imera agrees to help Arin, activating the World Fracture.

Upon Arin's transformation, Zair is evidently eaten and loses control of his body. What remains of his being is left alone in The Lattice until he is joined by Alren Vos who had met a similar fate after confronting Arin's Origin Core. After Alren attempts to introduce himself, Zair asks Alren if Imera also ate him.

Alren sits with Zair and listens as Zair explains his theory about the origin of life. Zair theorizes that all lifeforms find their meaning by "multiplying" and that it was a resultant fear of death which caused Imera to spawn her undying Coloss body and escape to the world of the Path. Zair theorizes that the reason she continued to obey the Fritz family for 2000 years was because she still felt a connection to the world and that she likely chose to help Arin because he was the first person able to understand her. Alren tries to get Zair to tell him how to escape the Path world, but Zair believes there is no point in continuing to fight. Alren reminds the man that their allies are fighting for the lives of innocent people, but Zair points out that every living thing must die eventually.

Alren begins recalling memories from his childhood which brought meaning to his life despite their insignificance; Zair looks up and is startled to see Alren holding a baseball. Taking it from him, Zair recalls the times he would play catch with Xaver and admits that the time was indeed precious for him. He muses that he would like to play catch again even if the game did not mean anything. Turning, Zair sees the former Coloss inheritors standing behind him, including his father and Xaver.

He stands to meet them, admitting to Xaver that even though he still thinks their euthanasia plan was right he would not mind being born again if it meant they could play catch again. He thanks Grisha for his life and asks his two father figures to lend him their strength.

Zair emerges from Arin's Coloss and begins calling for Kael. After getting his attention, Zair takes a moment to admire the day and laments that he did not notice its beauty sooner. He wryly admits that he did not deserve to notice given the atrocities he has committed before being decapitated by Kael, resulting in the Wall Colossi stopping their advance.

Zair was able to transform into a 17-meter Coloss referred to as the Primal Coloss ( 獣の巨人 Kemono no Kyojin ). He used the Coloss when he transformed the inhabitants of Ragako into Colossi and impose his will on them. He retained his human mind when transformed, allowing him to do delicate tasks, and he even retained his ability to speak. Zair's unique powers were due to his status as member of the Eldian royal family that stayed on the continental mainland, which was explained as unknown by members of the Coloss Biology Research Society in Dominion of Marn.